Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr23/session4slides.pdf

46
A test of your social consciousness: 
Put your money where you mouth is…
Aswath Damodaran
46
¨Assume that you work for Disney and that you have an opportunity 
to open a store in an inner-city neighborhood. The store is 
expected to lose about a million dollars a year, but it will create 
much-needed employment in the area and may help revitalize it.
¨Would you open the store?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If yes, would you tell your stockholders and let them vote on the 
issue?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If no, how would you respond to a stockholder query on why you 
were not living up to your social responsibilities?
47
Put simply, traditional corporate financial 
theory breaks down when ...
Aswath Damodaran
47
¨Managerial self-interest drives decision making: The 
interests/objectives of the decision makers in the firm 
conflict with the interests of stockholders.
¨Debt holders are unprotected: Bondholders (Lenders) 
are not protected against expropriation by stockholders.
¨Markets are inefficient and prices don’t reflect value: 
Financial markets do not operate efficiently, and stock 
prices do not reflect the underlying value of the firm.
¨Businesses create large side costs for society 
(externalitirs): Significant social costs can be created as a 
by-product of stock price maximization.
48
When traditional corporate financial theory 
breaks down, the solution is:
Aswath Damodaran
48
¨A non stockholder-based governance system: To choose a 
different mechanism for corporate governance, i.e, assign the 
responsibility for monitoring managers to someone other 
than stockholders.
¨A better objective than maximizing stock prices?To choose a 
different objective for the firm, either by shifting to a 
different metric or stakeholder group(s).
¨Maximize stock prices but minimize side costs: To maximize 
stock price, but reduce the potential for conflict and 
breakdown:
¤Making managers (decision makers) and employees into stockholders
¤Protect lenders from expropriation
¤By providing information honestly and promptly to financial markets
¤Minimize social costs
49
I. An Alternative Corporate Governance System
Aswath Damodaran
49
¨Germany and Japan developed a different mechanism for 
corporate governance, based upon corporate cross holdings. 
¤In Germany, the banks form the core of this system.
¤In Japan, it is the keiretsus
¤Other Asian countries have modeled their system after Japan, with family 
companies forming the core of the new corporate families
¨At their best, the most efficient firms in the group work at bringing 
the less efficient  firms up to par . They provide a corporate welfare 
system that makes for a more stable corporate structure
¨At their worst, the least efficient and poorly run firms in the group 
pull down the most efficient and best run firms down. The nature 
of the cross holdings makes its very difficult for outsiders (including 
investors in these firms) to figure out how well or badly the group 
is doing.
50
One End game: Managerial Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
50
51
A Skewed Version: Crony Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
51
52
IIa. Choose a Different Metric to Maximize
Aswath Damodaran
52
¨Firms can always focus on a different objective function. 
Examples would include
¤maximizing earnings
¤maximizing revenues
¤maximizing firm size
¤maximizing market share
¤maximizing EVA
¨The key thing to remember is that these are 
intermediate objective functions. 
¤To the degree that they are correlated with the long-term health 
and value of the company, they work well.
¤To the degree that they do not, the firm can end up with a 
disaster
53
IIb. Maximize stakeholder wealth
¨A fairness argument:  To the extent that shareholder 
wealth maximization seems to, at least at first sight, put 
all other stakeholders in the back seat, it seems unfair .
¨An Easy Fix? The logical response seems to be 
stakeholder wealth maximization, where the collective 
wealth of all stakeholders is maximized. That is the 
promise of stakeholder wealth maximization.
¨Protective response: As corporations have found 
themselves losing the battle for public opinions, many 
CEOs and even some institutional investors seem to have 
bought into this idea.
Aswath Damodaran
53
54
The Business Roundtable’s Message..
¨While each of our individual companies serves its own corporate purpose, 
we share a fundamental commitment to all ofour stakeholders. We 
commit to:
¤Delivering value to our customers. We will further the tradition of American 
companies leading the way in meeting or exceeding customer expectations.
¤Investing in our employees. This starts with compensating them fairly and 
providing important benefits. It also includes supporting them through training and 
education that help develop new skills for a rapidly changing world. We foster 
diversity and inclusion, dignity and respect.
¤Dealing fairly and ethically with our suppliers.We are dedicated to serving as 
good partners to the other companies, large and small, that help us meet our 
missions.
¤Supporting the communities in which we work. We respect the people in our 
communities and protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices 
across our businesses.
¤Generating long-term value for shareholders, who provide the capital that allows 
companies to invest, grow and innovate. We are committed to transparency and 
effective engagement with shareholders
55
Confused Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
55
56
If confused corporatism sounds like a good 
deal, some cautionary notes..
¨Government-owned companies: The managers of these 
companies were given a laundry list of objectives, resembling 
in large part the listing of stakeholder objectives, and told to 
deliver on them all. The end results were some of the most 
inefficient companies on the face of the earth, with every 
stakeholder group feeling ill-served in the process. 
¨US research universities: These entities lack a central focus, 
where whose interests dominate and why shifts, depending 
on who you talk to and when. The end resultis not just 
economically inefficient operations, capable of running a 
deficit no matter how much tuition is collection, but one 
where every stakeholder group feels aggrieved.
57
IIc. The ESG Promises: Cake for all, with no 
calories!
¨Good for companies: For companies, the promise is that 
being "good" willgenerate higher profitsfor the 
company, at least in thelong term, with lower risk, and 
thus make them more valuable.
¨Good for investors: For investors in these companies, the 
promise is that investing in "good" companies 
willgenerate higher returnsthan investing in "bad" or 
middling companies.
¨Good for society: For society, the promise is that not 
only would good companies helpfight problems directly 
related to ESG, like climate change and low wages, but 
also counter more general problems like income 
inequality and healthcare crises.
58
But what comprises goodness? The 
services disagree..
59
1. ESG and Value: Where’s the beef?
¨A Weak Link to Profitability: There is a small positive link between ESG and 
profitability, but one that is very sensitive to how profits are measured 
and over what period. Breaking down ESG into its component 
parts,environment (E) offered the strongest positive link to performance 
and social (S) the weakest, with governance (G) falling in the middle.
¨A Stronger Link to Funding Costs, at least in energy/fossil fuels:Studies of 
“sin” stocks, i.e., companies involved in businesses such as producing 
alcohol, tobacco, and gaming, find that these stocks are less commonly 
held by institutions and that they face higher costs for funding, from 
equity and debt). While these companies face higher costs, and have 
lower value, investors in these companies generate higher returns.
¨And to Failure/Disaster Risk: “Bad” companies are exposed to disaster 
risks, where a combination of missteps by the company, luck, and a failure 
to build in enough protective controls (because they cost too much) can 
cause a disaster, either in human or financial terms.
60
2. ESG and Returns: Mixed findings
¨ Invest in bad companies: A comparisonof two Vanguard Index funds, the Vice 
fund (invested in tobacco, gambling, and defense companies) and the FTSE Social 
Index fund (invested in companies screened for good corporate behavior on 
multiple dimensions) and note that a dollar invested in the former in August 2002 
would have been worth almost 20% more by 2015 than a dollar invested in the 
latter .
¨ Invest in good companies: There are some studies that find that good companies 
earn higher returns, but the outperformance is more due to factor and industry 
tilts than to social responsiveness. (Put simply, for much of the last decade ESG 
funds were tilted away from manufacturing/commodity and towards tech 
companies, and it was a good decade for tech stocks).
¨ ESG has no effect: Splitting the difference, there are other studies that find little 
or no differences in returns between good and bad companies. In fact, studies 
that more broadly look at factors that have driven stock returns for the last few 
decades find that much of the positive payoff attributed to ESG comes from its 
correlation with momentum and growth.
61
3. ESG and Society
¨There are some who argue that even if ESG is bad for 
companies and investors, it is good for society, because 
companies will treat their customers and employees 
better, while catering to their local communities.
¨There are three fundamental flaws:
¤Greenwashing: ESG allows companies to sound good, while not 
doing good, and that it will allow for posturing and public 
relation ploys that do little to advance public good. 
¤Outsourcing goodness: It makes the CEOs the arbiters of 
goodness and badness.
¤Behind the curtain: Pressuring companies to invest in the good 
and divest themselves or avoid the bad may only push bad 
behavior to less observable and monitored parts of the 
economy.
62
III. Maximize Stock Price, subject to ..
Aswath Damodaran
62
¨The strength of the stock price maximization objective 
function is its internal self correction mechanism. Excesses on 
any of the linkages lead, if unregulated, to counter actions 
which reduce or eliminate these excesses
¨In the context of our discussion,
¤managers taking advantage of stockholders can lead to a much more 
active market for corporate control.
¤stockholders taking advantage of bondholders can lead to bondholders 
and lenders protecting themselves better .
¤firms revealing incorrect or delayed information to markets can lead to 
markets becoming more “skeptical”and “punitive”
¤firms creating social costs can lead to more regulations, as well as 
investor and customer backlashes.
