Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2021.pdf

DATA UPDATE 4 FOR 2021: THE 
ELUSIVE HURDLE RATE
Connecting Price to Value
2
The Hurdle Rate
¨There are multiple definitions floating around, from it is 
the cost of raising capital for that business to an 
opportunity cost, i.e., a return that you can make 
investing elsewhere, to a required return for investors in 
that business. 
¨In a sense, each of those definitions has an element of 
truth to it, but used loosely, each of them can also lead 
you to the wrong destination. 
¨In this session, I will start by looking at the role that 
hurdle rates play in running a business, with the 
consequences of setting them too high or too low, and 
then look at the fundamentals that should cause hurdle 
rates to vary across companies.
3
1. Hurdle Rate as Cost of Funding
4
2. Hurdle Rate as Opportunity Cost
5
3. Hurdle Rate as Clearer of Capital…
6
Fundamentals that determine hurdle rates
¨The hurdle rate that you use on an investment should 
reflect:
¤The business that the investment is in, and its risk
¤The geography of the investment, both in terms of production 
and sales
¤The currency you choose to do your analysis in
¤The time at which you are doing the investment, since the 
market prices for risk vary across time
¨It follows that companies should have dynamic hurdle 
rates that vary across time and across investment, not 
corporate hurdle rates frozen in time.
7
1. Business
¨If you are a company with two business lines, one with 
predictable revenues and stable profit margins, and the other 
with cyclical revenues and volatile margins, you would expect 
to, other things remaining equal, use a lower hurdle rate for 
the first than the second.
¨That said, there are two tricky components of business risk 
that you need to navigate:
¤Firm specific versus Macro risk: When you invest in a company, there 
are two types of risks that you are exposed to, risks that are specific to 
the company and risks that are macroeconomic and market-wide. 
¤Financial leverage: Debt can lower the hurdle rate for some 
companies, but almost entirely because of the tax subsidy feature, not 
because it is cheaper. (More on that issue in a future data update 
post...) It can also raise the hurdle rate for others, because the distress 
risk it brings into the business overwhelms the tax advantage.
8
Costs of Capital in US $: Global Sectors
9
2. Geography
¨As a business, should you demand a higher US $ hurdle rate for 
investing in a project in Nigeria than the US $ hurdle rate you 
would require for an otherwise similar project in Germany 
¨The answer, to me, seems obviously yes, though there are still 
some who argue otherwise. The vehicle that I use to convey this 
country risk into hurdle rates is the equity risk premium, the price 
of risk in equity markets, that I talked about in my earlier post on 
the topic. In that post, I computed the equity risk premium for the 
S&P 500 at the start of 2021 to be 4.72%, using a forward-looking, 
dynamic measure of the risk premium. 
¨But what if the company is looking at a project in Nigeria or 
Bangladesh? To answer that question, I estimate equity risk 
premiums for almost every country in the world, using a very 
simple (or simplistic) approach.
10
Estimation Process
Blue: Moody’ s Rating
Red: Added Country Risk
Green #: Total ERP
ERP : Jan 2021
Aswath Damodaran
12
3. Currency
¨Currencies are a scaling variable and dealing with them is simple if you 
remember two truths. The primary reason why hurdle rates vary across 
currencies is because they bring different inflation expectations into the 
process, with higher inflation currencies commanding higher hurdle rates. 
¨To illustrate, if you assume that inflation in the US $ is 1% and that 
inflation in the Nigerian Naira is 8%, the hurdle rate that we computed for 
the Nigerian project in the last section can be calculated as follows:
¤Cost of equity in Naira for Nigerian project (short cut) = 12.06% + (8% -1%) = 
19.06%
¤Cost of equity in Naira for Nigerian project (precise) = 1.1206 * (1.08/1.01) -1 = 
19.83%
¨In effect, the Nigerian Naira hurdle rate will be higher by 7% (7.77%) 
roughly (precisely) and that difference is entirely attributable to inflation 
differentials.
13
Risk free Rates in Currencies
14
Implication 1: Nail down currency
¨We all have our frames of reference, based upon where 
we work, and not surprisingly, when we talk with others, 
we expect them to share the same frames of reference. 
¤When it comes to hurdle rates, that can be dangerous, since 
hurdle rates will vary across currencies, and cross-currency 
comparisons are useless. 
¤Thus, a 6% hurdle rate in Euros may look lower than a 12% 
hurdle rate in Turkish lira, but after inflation is considered, the 
latter may be the lower value. 
¤Any talk of a global risk free rate is nonsensical, since risk free 
rates go with currencies, and currencies matter only because 
they convey inflation. That is why you always have the option of 
completely removing inflation from your analysis, and do it in 
real terms.
15
Implication 2: We live in a low hurdle rate 
world…
16
Implication 3: Don’t sweat the small stuff… 
¨I spend a lot of my time talking about and doing intrinsic valuations, and 
for those of you who use discounted cash flow valuations to arrive at 
intrinsic value, it is true that discount rates are an integral part of a DCF . 
¨That said, I would argue that we spend way too much time on discount 
rates, finessing risk measures and risk premiums, and too little time on 
cash flows. 
¨In fact, if you are in a hurry to value a company in US dollars, just use a 
cost of capital based upon the distribution in the graph above (4.16% for a 
safe company, 5.30% for an average risk company or 5.73% for a risky 
company) as your discount rate, spend your time estimating revenue 
growth, margins and reinvestment, and if you do have the time, come 
back and tweak the discount rate.
¨And as for those sensitivity analysis that claim to show that value is very 
sensitive to the discount rate, that happens only if you change the 
discount rate and leave everything else alone, which is valuation 
malpractice.
