Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Indexology.pdf

Investing in the age of Index Funds!
2
§While much of the discussion in the last few weeks has been about what 
SpaceX, Anthropic and OpenAI are worth (and will be priced at, there has 
been another heated debate about indices and index inclusion 
criteria, a usually bland topic, but one that has become heated on the 
questions of whether these new mega-cap additions to the market should 
be included in the S&P 500. 
§I am skeptical, since I see a combination of hidden agendas and 
misguided viewsabout investing behind each of the three groups that are 
most vehemently against inclusions. 
§First, you have a cadre of active investors, losers in a battle against index funds 
and ETFS, arguing that inclusion is a risk to passive investing and an 
argument for paying these active investors significant portions to avoid that 
risk. 
§Second, you have investing experts and academics who claim to be looking at 
for retail investors and retirees and view including inclusion as dangerous for 
the savings and retirement funds of the "small" investors and retirees.
§Third, you have politicians piping up about how including these large 
companies in government pension funds will reward billionaires, who at 
least in their playbook, are the villains in the storylines.
3
§Constituents: he first and perhaps most critical determinant of an 
index are its constituents, and what determines their inclusion. 
Take, for instance, the S&P 500, which Standard & Poor's (its 
creator) describes as the "gauge of large-cap US equities", and is 
without doubt the most widely tracked and followed index in 
global market. 
§Weights:The first is toweight every company in an index 
equally,with the benefit being simplicity but the cost being a 
skew away from weighted performance. The second, and one used 
by some older indices like the Dow 30, isprice-weighting, where 
the companies with the highest price per share are weighted more 
than companies that have lower priced shares. The third and most 
widely used mechanism for construction indices ismarket 
capitalization, with tweaks sometimes added on for float (traded 
shares). The S&P 500, as I noted earlier, uses market capitalization, 
based on free float, and as a consequence, Meta punches in below 
its true weight, since the bulk of class B shares (which are voting 
shares held by Zuckerberg) are not counted, as does Walmart, 
where family-controlled holdings are treated as non-traded.
4
§Once constructed, an index has to be measured, and to the extent that these indices are designed to capture market prices, the first step is creating a mechanism for converting 
market prices on the constituents to an index level. 
§Consider, for instance, the S&P 500 which ended trading on June 15, 2026, at 7554.29, and 
relating that number to the market capitalization of the companies that make up the index. At close of trading on June 15, 2026, the cumulative float-adjusted market capitalization 
of the 500 companies in the index was $63,498.44 billion and the index units for the 
conversion can be computed as follows:
Index units = Index level / Float-adjusted market capitalization = 7554.29/ 63498.44 = 0.1190
§Indices of assets that are not continuously traded, most notably real estate (like the S&P 
Case-Shiller home price index), try to overcome the absence of price data on the assets by 
extrapolating from the pricing of the subset of assets that get traded, leading to noisier estimates and lags in price adjustment.
§Even the best constructed indices have to confront change and have mechanism to deal 
with that change that is transparent and quick to put into practice. Since you do not want 
abrupt changes in the index level coming just from replacing a company with a low market cap with one with a much higher market cap, the adjustment has to come from changing 
the index units. Thus, assume that a company goes public with a trillion-dollar market cap 
and that it will be replacing a company with a one-billion market cap, the adjusted index 
units for the S&P 500 will be as follows:
Index units = Index level / Float-adjusted market capitalization + Market cap of added firm -Market cap 
of eliminated firm = 7554.29/ (63498.44+ 1000 -1) = 0.1170
5
§When I started in equity markets in 1981, and at that time, indices 
were primarily measures of market performance. Indices continue to 
perform that role, though our access to data has changed dramatically, with 
real time updates on our devices occurring all through the day.
§From the measurement perspective, it is worth looking back at index 
construction and asking questions about the indices that best capture 
what you are trying to measure. The reason that the S&P 500 has 
acquired primacy is that while it includes only 500 companies in a US 
equity market that has almost 6000 publicly traded companies, the fact that 
these are the companies with the largest market capitalization means that 
the index represents more than 80% of the market capitalization of all US 
equities, and as a result, it is the single best proxy for aggregate equity 
market performance in the index. 
§That said, a different framing of the measurement question can lead 
you to a different index choice. Thus, if you are trying to measure how the 
average US equity did during a period, you may be better served using an 
equal-weighted equity index for that measurement.
6
7
8
9
10
11
•Pre-inclusion run up: Most companies that get added to the S&P 500 
have had a pre-inclusion run up in stock prices. That can cause tests to 
be skewed or biased.
•Inclusion bump:  There has historically been a bump in stock price on 
the date when it is announced that a company will be added to or 
deleted from the index.
•Changes over time: The index inclusion effect has weakened over 
time, and more recent studies are hard pressed to find any effect.
12
13
§As the funds invested in index funds and ETFs has surged, the argument 
that some are making is that being added to an index gives you a boost, 
largely because of index fund flows to companies in that index, and 
more of a boost if you are a large cap company. 
§Since the money flows from other stocks, this line of thought also suggests 
that fundamentals will receive less attention and more disconnect 
from prices, especially because there are fewer people doing research 
and looking for market inefficiencies.  In addition, they note that since 
indices are mostly market cap weighted, this momentum benefits larger 
market cap companies, in effect allowing them to become larger. 
§As evidence in favor of this argument, they point to the fact that markets 
have become top heavy, where a few winners are carrying the entire 
market, that the small cap premium, an enduring feature of equity 
markets in the twentieth century , has largely disappeared in this one 
and the dominance of momentum in investing success in the last 
decade. I concede that these phenomena are consistent with the "passive 
investing feeds momentum" story, but I am skeptical for the following 
reasons.
14
§Momentum can cut in both directions: It is true that funds flowing into index 
funds flow into the companies in that index, with more flowing into large cap 
companies, but it is also true that funds can flow out of index funds, and when 
that happens, the momentum can cut in the other direction. 
§Winner-take-all economics: If momentum is the reason for the big companies 
winning, there should be divergence between small and big companies on 
how fundamentals get priced. Put simply, you should see the pricing metrics 
(PE ratios, EV to EBITDA) for large cap companies increasing relative to small 
cap companies, as passive investing surges. Looking back at the fading small 
cap effect and top-heavy markets of the last decade or two, I would note that not 
all large cap companies have been winners, and the ones that have won have 
delivered a disproportionate portion of increased earnings. 
§Active investing and equity research: In my view, the notion that most 
analysts and active investors are looking for market inefficiencies and 
seeking out information strikes me as delusional. Much of active investing 
is built around publicly available information and a belief in the power of 
mean reversion, not original research and seeking information. It is true that 
there is a subset of active investors and equity research analysts who contribute 
to making prices more informative, but it is a small one, and one that is better 
equipped to survive the passive investing shift.
15
§Even if the argument that passive investing is making markets 
less efficient and more momentum-driven is true, I am unsure 
about the implications for investing. 
§Asking individual investors, retirees and endowment funds 
topay fees to professionals to manage their money while 
underperforming indices, in service to the larger cause of 
market efficiency is tone deaf and a non-starter. In fact, any 
endowment or pension fund manager who uses this argument to 
steer endowment funds to active money managers would be in 
violation of his or her fiduciary responsibility. 
§Perhaps, the argument is being made to regulators to restrict 
index funds (on which indices they can index, how much money 
they can manage), I can see why active money managers may be in 
favor, because I understand that they are trying to protect their 
livelihood, but they should dispense with any talk about protecting 
individual investors.
16
§An undercurrent in some of the opinion pieces that I have read 
about why SpaceX should not be included in the S&P 500, 
written by investment experts and academics, is that it will 
expose retail investors and retirees to risks that they are 
unaware they are taking, or even if made aware of the fact, 
should not be taking in the first place. 
§These opinion-writers seem to be arguing that the risks 
associated with investing in a big, money-losing 
companies (like SpaceX, and presumably OpenAI and 
Anthropic, when they go public) are so large that individual 
investors and retirees would not invest in these companies, 
and even they would, they should not be allowed to do so.
§I find this chain of reasoning to be both misguided, and 
insultingto individual investors, and reflective of 
misconceptions that are deeply and widely held in the 
investment expert class:
17
§Risk and Diversification:Investing just in a portfolio of a few companies 
like SpaceX would be imprudent, but an investor in a S&P 500 index 
fund is far less exposed to underperforming the market than the 
typical active money manager who either over invests in SpaceX (if it 
goes down) or chooses not to invest in it (if it goes up).
§Smart and Stupid Money: The belief that small investors are 
uninformed and naïve and will be exploited by smart money is 
misplaced. Much of what is labeled smart money is not only not that smart 
but more driven by herd following and momentum than what is labeled 
naïve or stupid money. 
§Good businesses and good investments: The weakest link in the argument 
against putting your money in money-losing companies is the implicit 
belief that money-making companies are good (safe) investments and 
that money-losing companies are bad (risky) ones. I will wager than an 
investor who was constrained to invest only in money-making 
businesses in the last two decades would have under performed an 
investor operating without those constraints, and without paying a 
risk penalty. At the right price, a money-losing company can be a good 
investment and at the wrong price, a company with solid and stable profits 
can be a bad investment.
18
§In the week prior to the SpaceX IPO, S&P removed some of the suspense in 
the question of whether the company would be included in the index by 
announcing that they would stick with their requirement that a company 
be listed and traded at least a year before becoming eligible for index 
inclusion. That decision also means that OpenAI and Anthropic, if they do go 
public this year, will also have to wait a year for consideration. 
§I am glad that S&P is not changing the rules to allow these companies to jump 
the queue to get into the index, but I hope that it is not framed as a decision 
that was taken to protect investors or in the hope that these companies 
would become magically money making, better governed and working 
business models.  The truth is that S&P needs the time to manage the transition 
of three trillion-dollar companies into the index, even as it confronts the 
challenge of claiming to be a large cap index that does not include three of the 
largest market cap stocks in the market.
§As for the companies (SpaceX, OpenAI and Anthropic), I will wager that they 
will lose little in market momentum from not being included in the index, 
and that their price paths will be determined by how the AI story continues to 
play out in terms of both substance (growth, unit economics, reinvestment) and 
perception (hype and momentum). 
§The bottom line is that S&P needs these companies in its index more than 
they need to be in the index, with the consequence that the companies will not 
go out of their way to meet index requirements that they feel are costly to them.
