Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 5: 
THE HURDLE RATE
Aswath Damodaran
2
Cost of Capital: A Financial Balance Sheet 
Perspective
3
The Swiss Army Knife
4
Every Risk has a place
5
1. Business Risk
¨ If you are diversified, I argued that you would measure 
the risk in an investment with the covariance of that 
investment with the market, or in its standardized form, 
its beta.
¨ To get the beta for a company, then, you can adopt one 
of two approaches.
¤ The first, and the one that is taught in every finance class, is to 
run a regression of returns on the stock against a market index 
and to use the regression beta.
¤ The second, and my preferred approach, is to estimate a beta by 
looking at the business or businesses a company operates in, 
and taking a weighted average of the betas of companies in that 
business.
6
Estimation Process
¨ Each year, I estimate these numbers by averaging the 
betas of publicly traded companies in each business. 
These betas, in addition to reflecting the risk of the 
business, also reflect the financial leverage of 
companies in that business (with more debt pushing 
up betas) and their holdings in cash and marketable 
securities (which, being close to risk less, push down 
betas). 
¨ I adjust the average beta for both variables to 
estimate what is called a pure play or a business 
beta for each business.
7
Beta for a company
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ To get from these business betas to the beta of a 
company, you need to first identify what businesses the 
company operates in, and then how much value it 
derives from each of the businesses. 
¤ The first part is usually simple to do, though you may face the 
challenge of finding the right bucket to put a business into
¤ The second part is usually difficult, because the individual 
businesses do not trade. You can use revenues or operating 
income by business as approximations to estimate weights or 
apply multiples to each of these variables (by looking at what 
other companies in the business trade at) to arrive at value 
weights.
8
2. Financial Leverage
¨ Debt Ratio: Th mix of debt and equity that you use 
represents the weights in your cost of capital.
¨ Beta Effect: As you borrow money, your equity will 
become riskier, because it is a residual claim, and having 
more interest expenses will make that claim more 
volatile. 
¨ Cost of Debt: The cost of debt, which is set by lenders 
based upon how much default risk that they see in a 
company. To the extent that the tax law is tilted towards 
debt, the after-tax cost of borrowing will reflect that tax 
benefit.
9
3. Country Risk
¨ Sovereign Ratings and Default Spreads: The vast majority of 
countries have sovereign ratings, measuring their default 
risk.
¨ Sovereign CDS spreads: The Credit Default Swap (CDS) market 
is one where you can buy insurance against sovereign default, 
and it offers a market-based estimate of sovereign risk. 
¨ Country Risk Premiums: I start with the default spreads, but I 
add a scaling factor to reflect the reality that equities are 
riskier than government bonds to come up with country risk 
premiums. The scaling factor that I use is obtained by dividing 
the volatility of an emerging market equity index by the 
volatility of emerging market bonds.
10
ERP Estimation in January 2019
Black #: Total ERP
Red #: Country risk premium
Regional #: GDP weighted average
ERP : Jan 2019
12
4. Currency Risk (or is it Choice)
13
Approach 1: Risk free Rate
14
Approach 2: Differential Inflation
¨ You estimate the cost of capital in a currency that 
you feel comfortable with (in terms of estimating risk 
free rates and risk premiums) and then add on or 
incorporate the differential inflation between that 
currency and the local currency that you want to 
convert the cost of capital to. 
¨ Thus, to convert the cost of capital in US $ terms to a 
different currency, you would do the following:
15
Proposition 1: A hurdle rate is an 
opportunity cost, not a funding cost
¨ Most people, when asked what a cost of capital is, will 
respond with the answer that it is the cost of raising 
capital. In the context of its usage as a hurdle rate, that is 
not true. 
¨ It is an opportunity cost, a rate of return that you (as a 
company or investor) can earn on other investments in 
the market of equivalent risk. 
¨ That is why, when valuing a target firm in an acquisition, 
you should always use the risk characteristics of the 
target firm (its beta and debt capacity) to compute a cost 
of capital, rather than the cost of capital of the acquiring 
firm.
16
Proposition 2: A company-wide hurdle rate 
can be misleading and dangerous
¨ In corporate finance, the hurdle rate becomes the number to beat, 
when you do investment analysis. Most companies claim to have a 
corporate hurdle rate, a number that all projects that are assessed 
within the company get measured against. 
¨ If your company operates in only one business and one country, 
this may work, but to the extent that companies operate in many 
businesses across multiple countries, there can be no one hurdle 
rate. Even if you use only one currency in analysis, your cost of 
capital will be a function of which business a project is in, and what 
country it is aimed at. 
¨ The consequences of not making these differential adjustments will 
be that your safe businesses will end up subsidizing your risky 
businesses, and over time, both will be hurt, in what I term the 
"curse of the lazy conglomerate".
17
Proposition 3: Currency is a choice, but 
one that should not change outcomes
¨ If you follow the consistency rule on currency, 
incorporating inflation into both cash flows and discount 
rates, your analyses should be currency neutral. 
¨ In other words, a project that looks like it is a bad 
project, when the analysis is done in US dollar terms, 
cannot become a good project, just because you decide 
to do the analysis in Indian rupees. 
¨ If you do get divergent answers with different currencies, 
it is because there are inflation inconsistencies in your 
assessments of discount rates and cash flows.
18
Proposition 4: Your cost of capital cannot 
be insulated from the market
¨ There are many who remain wary of financial 
markets and their capacity to be irrational and 
volatile. 
¨ Consequently, they try to generate hurdle rates that 
are unaffected by market movements, a futile and 
dangerous exercise, because we have to be price 
takers on at least some of the inputs into hurdle 
rates. 
¨ Your cost of capital will change, and should change, 
as risk free rates and the prices of risk (equity risk 
premiums and default spreads) change.
19
Proposition 5: Gain perspective on cost of 
capital
