Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Taxes2021.pdf

CORPORATE TAX REFORM: YET 
AGAIN?
You are entitled to opinions, but not to the facts!
2
Another tax reform moment?
¨The Biden Administration's $ 2 trillion infrastructure plan, 
announced with fanfare a few weeks ago, has seemed to have 
opened up a debate about not only what comprises infrastructure, 
but also about how to pay for it.  Not surprisingly. it is corporate 
taxes that are the primary vehicle for delivering the revenues 
needed for the plan, with an increase in the federal corporate tax 
rate from 21% to 28% being the central proposal. 
¨I will leave the debate on what comprises infrastructure to others, 
and focus entirely on the corporate tax question in this post. 
¨I do this, knowing fully well that tax debates quickly turn toxic, as 
people have strong priors on whether corporations pay their fair 
share of taxes, and selectively find inforrmationto back their 
positions.
3
Taxes and Value: It is complicated
¨ Feedback effect on taxable income: This may seem cynical, but it is nevertheless 
true that the amount that companies report as taxable income and how much 
they choose to defer taxes into future years is a function of the corporate tax rate. 
Astax rates rise, corporations use the discretion built into the tax code toreport 
less taxable incomeand todefer more taxesto future years. It is for this reason 
that legislatures around the world over estimate how much additional revenue 
they will generate, when they raise taxes, and investors over estimate how much 
corporate earnings will rise when tax rates are decreased.
¨ Contemporaneous changes in the tax code: When corporate tax rates are 
changed, it is a given that there will be other changes in the tax code that may 
either counter the change or add to it. For instance, the 2017 US tax reform act, in 
addition to lowering the corporate tax rate, also changed the way that foreign 
income to US companies was taxed.
¨ Financing Mix: Companies can raise capital either from equity or debt, and the 
costs of equity and debt can be altered when the tax rate changes. That is because 
interest on debt is tax deductible, and as the corporate tax rate rises, the after-tax 
cost of debt falls, making debt a more attractive financing option for companies.
4
Taxes and Value: A Picture
5
Taxes and Value: Differentiating Factors
¨Note that it is the effective tax rate, determined by tax deferrals and other 
tax management tools, that drives after-tax earnings and cash flows, and 
the marginal tax rate, i.e., the tax rate on the last dollar of income earned 
that determines the corporate after-tax borrowing cost. It is this reason 
that the effect of raising or lowering corporate tax rates on value can get 
murky, with the following general propositions:
¤Tax Deferral Options: Companies that have more options when it comes to 
deferring taxes than others can buffer the impact of higher corporate taxes by 
choosing to defer taxes and report less taxable income. 
¤Debt funding: Firms that are heavier users of debt financing will be able to offset 
some or even all of the impact of a higher corporate tax rate, by using the tax 
advantages that come with the higher tax rate to lower their costs of capital.
¨Put simply, when corporate tax rates are raised, not all companies will 
lose the same, and there may even be a few companies that emerge as 
net winners.
6
Marginal Tax Rates: US Corporate Tax Rates over 
history
7
But the world has changed..
¨While that system worked well for most of the twentieth century, it 
started to break down towards the end of that century, as the US became 
a less dominant player in the global economy and othercountries lowered 
theircorporate tax rates. The first development meant that larger 
proportions of UScorporate income was generated overseas, and the 
second increased the differential tax rates and thus the repatriation 
penalty. 
¨By 2014, when Iwrote this post, the US tax code had become 
dysfunctional, as the trapped cash cumulated to trillions of dollars and 
some US companies sought to change move their incorporation to other 
countries. 
¨This history is worth emphasizing, because the change in the US 
corporate tax rate in 2021, from 35% to 21%, accompanied by 
theabandonment of the global tax model just brought the US closer to 
the rest ofthe world in terms of both tax rates and treatment of foreign 
income.
9
Effective Tax Rates
¨To measure how much companies pay in taxes, you have 
to start with the financial statements of the company, 
recognizing that these are reporting documents, not tax 
documents. 
¨Put simply, what you see as taxable income in the annual 
report or public financial filing for a company can be very 
different from the taxable income in the tax filings made 
by the same company. 
¨Since we have no access to the latter, at least for 
individual companies, there are clues in the reported 
financials that can nevertheless help us assess how much 
a company pays in taxes
10
The Clues in the Financial Statements
11
Why effective tax rates can mislead..
¨ Accrual income: It is worth remembering that accrual income is after accounting 
expenses, some of which are related to operations (cost of goods sold, marketing), 
some to financial (interest expenses) and some of which are determined by the 
tax code (depreciation and amortization, write offs, special charges). A company 
that is savvy about using tax provisions to lower its accrual income may be able to 
look like it is paying a high effective tax rate, but is actually paying much less.
¨ Cash taxes versus Accrual taxes: The actual taxes paid by to the government (cash 
taxes) can be higher or lower than the accrual taxes, and the difference should be 
visible in the cash flow statement in the form of deferred taxes.
¨ Past tax behavior: One final aspect that can affect a company's tax burden is its 
past history. A company that has lost considerable amounts in prior years can 
accumulate net operating losses that can reduce taxes paid in the current period. 
In addition, a company that has deferred taxes in prior years will find itself playing 
catch-up and paying more in taxes in the current year , just as companies that have 
pre-paid taxes may be able to pay far less in taxes in the current year .
12
Measuring Tax Rates for a Group: Alternative 
measures
¨Taxes paid in dollar value (Accrual and Cash): This reflects the aggregate 
amount paid by all companies in a grouping during the most recent year. 
Ultimately, this is the number that matters most from a tax collection 
perspective.
¨Average effective tax rate across all companies: This is the average tax 
rate across all companies in a grouping, including money losing 
companies. Not surprisingly, the average will be pushed down as the 
number of money losing firms increases.
¨Average effective tax rate across money making companies: This deals 
with the problem of money losing companies, but it is a simple average 
and it weights very small companies and very large companies equally.
¨Aggregate tax rate: This is the tax rate that best captures how much 
companies pay in a sector, and is computed by dividing the sum of taxes 
paid by all companies in a sector by the sum of taxable income. It thus 
weights companies that are bigger more than smaller companies.
13
US Effective Tax Rates: 2016 -2020
14
And over time…
15
Effects of lowering marginal tax rates?
¨Note that while the corporate tax rate dropped by 14% 
(from 35% to 21%) from 2017 to 2018, the effective tax 
rate decreased by 6.8% and the cash tax rate by 2.75%. 
¨In a more telling statistic, the dollar value of taxes paid 
increased between 2017 and 2019 by 1.4% and cash 
taxes by almost 18%, as companies reported more 
taxable income. 
¨While the argument about the right tax rate for 
companies is a legitimate one, it has to start with a 
reality check. The widely held perception that US 
companies are now paying less in taxes than they were 
prior to 2017, while it may fit your preconceptions about 
corporate tax behavior, is not backed up by facts.
17
Sector Specific Tax Rates: For US
18
Reading the tea leaves..
¨There are clear differences in taxes paid across sectors, 
with some of the reasons being obvious (REITs are pass 
through entities that pay no federal taxes) and some not. 
¨For instance, technology companies and pharmaceutical 
businesses are mostly in the first two columns (with the 
lowest tax rates) and retail companies pay much higher 
tax rates. 
¨Pharmaceutical and technology companies do share a 
common characteristic, which is that their primary 
capital expenditure takes the form of R&D, which has 
historically been expensed at these companies, rather 
than capitalized and depreciated.
19
R&D and Taxes
20
Market Cap and Taxes
There seems to be a perception that it is the largest companies that 
are not paying their fair share in taxes, fed by anecdotal evidence of 
high profile companies that pay no taxes; in the last few years, those 
examples have includedGE,AmazonandFedEx.
21
Thoughts on new tax laws
¨ Get your mission right: In keeping with the saying that if you do not know where you going, it does 
not matter how you get there, the starting point for all tax legislation has to be with the end game. 
Early on, legislators have to decide whether they consider corporate taxes to primarily a source of 
revenues to the government or a weapon to punish "bad" corporate behavior and to "reward" 
good corporate behavior. 
¨ All tax talk is agenda-driven: Economists and experts will use numbers that back their arguments 
and look like facts, but it is easy to lie with numbers, especially when it comes to taxes. 
¨ Focus on removing tax deductions/credits, not on increasing tax rates: If the end game is to get 
companies to pay more in taxes, removing tax deductions and credits will be more effective than 
increasing the tax rate. In fact, raising the tax rate will not only raise the effective tax rate paid by 
companies far less than expected, but it will also have disparate effects across companies.
¨ Remember that you operate in a global economy: No matter how careful you write the tax laws, 
multinationals will retain a substantial amount of freedom to move their operations and income 
around the world. A country that is an outlier when it comes to taxes, as the United States was 
prior to 2017, will lose out in the competition for new businesses. 
¨ Provide long-term predictability: Whatever Congress decides to do with the tax code, it should also 
provide a degree of predictability for an extended period. Changes to the tax law that are 
temporary or come with sunset provisions create uncertainty for businesses trying to make 
investment decisions for the long term.
