Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate1for2018.pdf

THE	PROMISE	AND	PERILS	OF	
DATA:	MY	JANUARY	2018	DATA	
UPDATE
Aswath	Damodaran
2
Praying	to	the	Data	Gods
¨ At	the	start	of	each	year,	I	collect	raw	data	from	all	
publicly	traded	companies	around	the	world	and	
summarize	the	data	on	geographic	and	industry	
groupings.
¤ Current	Data:	
http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/New_Home_Page/
datacurrent.html
¤ Archived	Data:	
http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/New_Home_Page/
dataarchived.html
3
The	What?
¨ My	raw	data:	My	dataset	includes	every	publicly	
traded	firm	that	has	a	market	price	available	for	it,	in	
my	raw	dataset,	and	at	the	start	of	2018,	it	included	
43,848	firms,	up	from	the	42,678	firms	at	the	start	of	
2017.	
¨ Why	I	don’t	screen:	Any	decision	that	I	make	on	
screening	the	data	or	sampling	will	create	biases	that	
will	color	my	results,	and	while	I	will	not	claim	to	be	
bias-free	(no	one	is),	I	would	prefer	to	not	initiate	it	
with	my	sampling.
4
The	Data	Breakdown
5
The	Data
Risk	Measures
1. Beta
2. Standard	deviation	in	stock	
price
3. Standard	deviation	in	
operating	income
4. High-Low	Price	Risk	Measure
Cost	of	Funding
1. Cost	of	Equity
2. Cost	of	Debt
3. Cost	of	Capital
Pricing	Multiples
1. PE	&PEG
2. Price	to	Book
3. EV/EBIT	and	EV/EBITDA
4. EV/Sales	and	Price/Sales
Profitability
1. Net	Profit	Margin
2. Operating	Margin
3. EBITDA,	EBIT	and	EBITDAR&D	
Margins
Financial	Leverage
1. D/E	ratio	&	Debt/Capital	(book	
&	market)
2. Debt/EBITDA
3. Interest	Coverage	Ratios
Cash	Flow	Add-ons
1. Cap	Ex	&	Net	Cap	Ex
2. Non-cash	Working	Capital	as	%	
of	Revenue
3. Sales/Invested	Capital
Returns
1. Return	on	Equity
2. Return	on	Invested	Capital
3. ROE	– Cost	of	Equity
4. ROIC	– Cost	of	Capital
Dividend	Policy
1. Dividend	Payout	&	Yield
2. Dividends/FCFE	&	(Dividends	+	
Buybacks)/	FCFE
Risk	Premiums
1. Equity	Risk	Premiums
2. Bond	Default	Spreads
6
The	Why?
¨ Perspective:	When	valuing	individual	companies,	I	find	that	having	access	
to	industry	and	geographic	averages	gives	me	perspective	on	the	numbers	
that	I	use	for	the	company.	
¨ Rules	of	Thumb:	Investing	is	full	of	rules	of	thumb	that	we	devised	in	a	
different	time	for	a	different	market,	but	still	are	used	by	investors,	often	
without	question.	Looking	at	the	cross	sectional	distributions	of	PEG	and	
Price	to	Book	ratios	across	all	companies	should	give	us	the	answer	and	
allow	us	to	cull	through	these	rules	of	thumb.
¨ Curiosity:	There	are	questions	that	all	of	us	have	about	companies	that	
only	the	numbers	can	answer .	The	answers	to	these	questions	are	in	the	
numbers	and	I	find	that	they	provide	an	antidote	to	experts	who	try	to	
pass	off	opinions	as	facts.
¨ Trends	and	Shifts:	Companies	change	over	time,	albeit	slowly,	and	these	
changes	have	consequences	not	just	for	investors	but	for	governments,	
taxpayers	and	workers.
7
The	Quirks
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ Timing:	All	of	the	data	that	I	have	used	in	my	analysis	was	collected	after	the	close	
of	trading	on	the	last	trading	day	of	2017	(December	29	for	most	markets)	and	
reflects	the	most	updated	data,	as	of	that	day.	
¨ Missing	Data:	Information	disclosure	requirements	vary	widely	across	markets	and	
since	my	dataset	spans	all	markets,	there	are	some	items	that	are	available	in	
some	markets	and	not	in	others.	Rather	than	eliminate	companies	with	missing	
data,	which	will	both	decimate	and	bias	my	sample,	I	keep	them	in	the	sample	
and	deal	with	them	the	best	that	I	can.	
¨ Accounting	inconsistencies:	I	have	argued	in	prior	posts	that	accountants	are	
inconsistent	in	their	treatment	of	capital	expenditures	and	debt	across	companies,	
treating	the	biggest	capital	expenditures	(R&amp;D)	at	technology	and	
pharmaceutical	companies	as	operating	expenses	and	ignoring	the	primary	debt	
(leases)	at	retail	and	restaurant	companies.	
¨ Data	mistakes:	Working	with	a	spreadsheet	with	43,848	companies	and	150	data	
items,	I	am	sure	that	there	are	mistakes	that	have	found	their	way	into	my	
summaries,	notwithstanding	my	attempts	to	catch	them.	Some	of	these	mistakes	
are	mine	but	some	reflect	errors	in	the	raw	data.
8
The	Caveats
Aswath Damodaran
8
¨ Numbers	≠	Facts:	While	the	numbers,	once	reported,	look	precise,	they	
are	not	facts	but	opinions.	Thus,	when	you	look	at	the	debt	ratios	that	I	
report	for	a	sector,	it	is	worth	emphasizing	that	I	have	capitalized	lease	
commitments	and	added	them	to	all	interest	bearing	debt	(short	and	long	
term)	to	arrive	at	total	debt,	yielding	a	different	number	that	what	you	
may	see	on	a	different	service.	I	have	tried	to	be	as	transparent	as	I	can	in	
making	my	estimates	but	they	remain	estimates.
¨ Past	is	not	always	prologue:	I	believe	that	knowing	history	is	useful	in	
investing,	but	trusting	it	to	repeat	itself	is	dangerous.
¨ Just	because	everyone	does	it	does	not	make	it	right:	As	you	look	at	the	
datasets,	you	will	see	patterns	in	investment,	financing	and	dividend	
policy	in	sectors.	While	there	are	often	good	reasons	for	these	
differences,	there	are	also	bad	ones,	with	inertial	on	top	of	that	list.	The	
reality	is	that	there	are	established	corporate	finance	policies	in	many	
sectors	that	no	longer	make	sense,	because	the	sectors	have	changed	
fundamentally	over	time.
