Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/KeystoneKops.pdf

VALUATION	KEYSTONE	KOPS:	
LAZARD,	EVERCORE &	TSLA/SCTY
Bias,	greed	and	ignorance!
2
The	Tesla/Solar	City	Deal
3
The	Banker’s	Dilemma	in	Friendly	Deals
4
The	Special	Challenge	in	the	TSLA/SCTY	
Deal
¨ Where	is	the	synergy?
¤ Though	Musk	claimed	that	the	deal	was	a	no-brainer,	the	logic	
of	the	deal	and	the	potential	for	synergy	looks	like	a	far	reach.	
¤ There	may	be	some	cost	advantages,	though	it	seems	to	be	
primarily	in	Solar	City	(and	does	not	require	a	merger	to	
accomplish)
¤ The	revenue	gains	are	even	more	remote.
¨ Where	is	the	control	value?
¤ Though	the	companies	are	independent	entities,	they	are	both	
controlled	by	Elon	Musk.
¤ The	essence	of	control	is	that	you	think	that	one	of	these	
companies	is	badly	run	(presumably	Solar	City).
¤ If	so,	what’s	stopping	Mr .	Musk	from	changing	the	management	
of	the	company?
5
The	Evidence
6
The	Misdemeanors
1. No	internal	checks	for	consistency:	There	is	almost	a	cavalier	
disregard	for	the	connection	between	growth,	risk	and	
reinvestment.	Thus,	when	both	banks	use	ranges	of	growth	for	
their	perpetual	value	estimates,	it	looks	like	neither	adjusts	the	
cash	flows	as	growth	rates	change.	
2. Discount	Rates:	I	will	give	both	bankers	the	benefit	of	the	doubt	
and	attribute	the	differences	in	their	costs	of	capital	to	estimation	
differences,	rather	than	to	bias.	The	bigger	question,	though,	is	
why	the	discount	rates	don't	change	as	you	move	through	time	to	
2021,	where	both	Tesla	and	Solar	City	are	described	as	slower	
growth,	money	making	companies.
3. Pricing	and	Valuation:	Both	bankers	move	back	and	forth	
between	value	and	price	and	often	mix	the	two,	with	Lazard	
estimating	the	terminal	value	in	its	Tesla	as	ten	times	EBITDA.
7
The	Felonies
1. Outsourcing	of	cash	flows:	It	looks	like	both	bankers	used	cash	
flow	forecasts	provided	to	them	by	the	management.	In	the	case	
of	Tesla,	the	expected	cash	flows	for	2016-2020	were	generated	
by	Goldman	Sachs	Equity	Research (GSER,	See	Page	99	of	
prospectus)	and	for	Solar	City,	the	cash	flows	for	that	same	
period	were	provided	by	Solar	City,	conveniently	under	two	
scenarios,	one	with	a	liquidity	crunch	and	one	without.	
2. Terminal	Value	Hijinks:	While	there	are	a	multitude	of	estimation	
issues	that	plague	perpetual	growth	based	terminal	value,	from	
not	adjusting	the	cost	of	capital	to	reflect	mature	company	status	
to	not	modifying	the	reinvestment	to	reflect	stable	growth,	there	
is	one	mistake	that	is	deadly,	and	that	is	assuming	a	growth	rate	
that	is	higher	than	that	of	the	economy	forever .
8
The	Verdict
¨ Lazard	is	guilty	of	laziness,	plugging	in	discount	rates	into	someone	
else's	cash	flow	forecasts	and	getting	paid	$2	million	plus	for	that	
service.
¨ Evercore’svaluations	are	horror	stories,	with	bad	assumptions	piled	
on	top	of	impossible	assumptions.	Guilty	of	both	laziness	and	
incompetence.
¨ Goldman	is	the	mystery	here.	While	the	bank	is	mentioned	only	in	
passing,	it	was	Tesla’s	investment	bank	until	earlier	this	year .	While	
they	will	claim	that	they	have	nothing	to	do	with	this	deal.	Verdict	
delayed,	pending	answers	to	three	questions:
a) Did	Goldman	had	any	input	into	the	choice	of	deal	bankers?
b) Did	Goldman	have	any	role	in	the	estimation	of	Solar	City	cash	flows?
c) How	did	the	Goldman	Sachs	Equity	Research	forecast	became	the	
basis	for	the	Tesla	valuations
9
The	Sentencing
¨ Legal	Sanctions:	Not	likely.	The	courts	have	tended	
to	give	too	much	respect	for	precedence	and	expert	
witnesses,	even	when	the	precedent	or	expert	
testimony	fails	common	sense	tests	and	it	is	possible	
that	these	valuations,	while	abysmal,	will	pass	the	
legally	defensible	test.
¨ Loss	of	Business:	For	the	many	companies	that	do	
bad	deals	and	need	an	investment	banking	sign-off	
on	that	deal	(in	the	form	of	a	fairness	opinion),	
ineptitude	in	banking	may	be	a	plus,	not	a	minus.
