Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BillionaireTax.pdf

THE BILLIONAIRE TAX: THE 
WORST TAX LAW EVER?
They deserve it!
2
The Billionaire Tax
Aswath Damodaran2
¨If you have been tracking the torturous negotiations about 
the infrastructure bills working their way through Congress, 
consideration is now being given to a "billionaire" tax, 
focused on an extraordinarily small subset of Americans, and 
intended to raise tens, perhaps even hundreds, of billions of 
dollars in revenues. 
¨I am constantly amazed by the capacity of legislatures to 
write bad tax law, but this one takes the cake as perhaps the 
worst thought-through and most ineffective attempt ever, at 
rewriting tax code. 
¨That is a little unfair, I know, because the details are still being 
hashed out, and it is conceivable that the final version will be 
redeemable, but given that the clock is ticking, I am not 
hopeful.
3
The Lead in… Wealth Inequality
4
Tax Unfairness? Depends on whether you look 
at dollar (federal) taxes paid…
5
Or tax rates (including other taxes)…
6
And if unrealized capital gains are counted, the 
wealthiest (400) paid only…
7
How we got here…
Aswath Damodaran7
¨ During the presidential campaign, President Bidenpromised repeatedly that 
he would not raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 a year in 
income, effectively locking out 98.2% of income taxpayers from any proposed 
tax increase. 
¨ In conjunction, he also argued that the the top 1.8% of the populace were not 
paying their fair share of taxes, and that corporations were also paying too 
little, and that any rewrite of the tax code would force them to pay their "fair 
share".
¨ In keeping with these two promises, the version of the big infrastructure bills 
that was floating around until last week raised a significant portion of 
revenues from changes in tax rates for the wealthiest (by raising the marginal 
tax rate from 37% to 39.6% for those in the $400,000 plus income range and 
by adding a surtax on capital gains for those making more than a million) and 
by raising corporate tax rates from 21% to a higher number.
¨ Those proposals ran aground because ofobjections on raising tax rates from 
Senator Sinemalast week, leading to a rethink of the revenue side.
8
The Billionaire Tax Proposal
¨ Targeted Taxpayers: The tax will be targeted at individuals who own more than $1 
billion in assetsorhave had income of more than $100 million for three consecutive 
years. That is pretty elitecompany, and it is estimated that less than 1000 taxpayers in 
the United States would be affected.
¨ Taxable Items: The tax would apply to a wide array of assets, including stocks, bonds, 
real estate and art. I am assuming that closely held businesses are not covered by the 
tax, or if they are, they will be dealt with differently, but since the proposal is still in the 
process of being written, we just don't know.
¨ The Proposal: The changes in values of these assets will be subject to tax, even though 
the individuals continue to hold them, making this a tax on"unrealized" capital gains. 
There is talk that taxpayers will be allowed todeduct "unrealized" capital lossesas 
well, though the details remain fuzzy.
¨ The Tax Rate: It is not clear what tax rate would apply on these changes in value, i.e., 
whether it would be an extension of the capital gains tax rate to these unrealized 
capital gains, or some other rate, and alsowhether the tax rate will be the same for all 
assets, irrespective of liquidity.
9
The Worst Tax Code Ever
1. Micro Targeting
¨ Since very few of us to like paying more in taxes, but don't seem to mind seeing 
others paying more, the political payoff from targeting very few taxpayers is that 
you minimize the backlash. 
¨ I know that each of us probably has a billionaire that we hate, andmay take secret 
pleasure in watching that billionaire pay more, but if you view the prime role of 
taxes as generating revenues for governments, it is dangerous to focus raising tax 
revenues from this small a number.
¨ As a general rule, taxes that are broad based and affect most people are more 
likely to deliver predicted revenues than those that affect a narrow subset of the 
population, and the billionaire tax is about as narrowly focused as tax law gets. 
¨ You may have little sympathy for the seven hundred or so billionaires affected by 
these taxes, but you should also recognizedthat these individuals also have the 
most resources to find ways to minimize the impact of these laws. In fact, not only 
is an army of tax lawyers, accountants and investment vehicles being created 
while the law in being written, but I would not be surprised if they are providing 
input on its actual form.
10
2. Based on capital gains
¨The basis used for computing taxes can have implications 
for revenues from the tax code, and that basis can range 
from sales (with value added and sales taxes) to 
salary/wage income, to capital gains. 
¨Taxes based upon revenues/sales will yield more 
predictable revenue for the government than taxes based 
upon salary income, and taxes based upon salary income 
will yield more stable revenues than taxes based upon 
capital gains.
¨Capital gains come from stock price changes, which are 
far more volatile, than income earned by taxpayers, and 
that income, in turn, changes more on a year-to-year 
basis than the value of the assets they own.
11
CaliforniaversusFlorida:TaxRevenues
12
3. Based on ”unrealized” gains
¨The new feature of this law is its attempt totax unrealized capital gains 
on assets. The problem with taxing "unrealized" gains or income is that 
since they are unrealized, and taxes have tobe paid with cash, the 
question of how to come up withthe cash becomes an issue, making it a 
central challenge for any plan, built around it. In fact, there are two 
practical problems with the proposal, at least as described in the press.
¤Liquidity questions: If the billionaire is going to apply on assets like real estate and 
fine art, and not just on stocks and bonds, the idea that you can sell some your 
holdings in the open market and get the cash you need to pay taxes does not apply 
as easily, since these non-traded assets are often illiquid and cannot be sold off in 
small parts. It will also mean that taxpayers who own non-traded assets will need 
appraisers to revalue these assets every year, great for the appraisal business, but 
almost guaranteed to create a hotbed of litigation around the appraised values.
¤Losses and Gains: After a decade of rising stock and bond prices, I guess that many 
have forgotten that not only can what goes up come down, but also that you can 
have extended periods where assets stagnate or drop in value. While there is airy 
talk of being allowed to claim unrealized losses as deductions, how exactly would 
this work? Put simply, if stocks are up 20% in 2021 and down in 2022, would 
taxpayers get refunds on their taxes paid in 2021?
13
And what are the tax revenues assuming about 
the future?
14
4. With side effects for other tax revenues…
¨If paying the billionaire tax changes the tax basis for 
assets, as it should since they are being marked to 
market, and taxed, that will also mean that when these 
stocks are sold (by the taxpayer or asaninheritance), 
there will be lesscapital gains taxes collected. 
¨If all the billionaire tax code change is doing is moving 
forward the collection of taxes to earlier, rather than 
later, there is a time value benefit to the government, 
but it has tobe a net benefit. 
¤In other words, the lost future taxes will have to be netted out 
against the $200 billion that it is expected to bring in revenues 
over the next decade.
15
5. It is an incremental wealth tax
¨For a few years, progressives led by Senator Warren have argued 
for a wealth tax, and its pluses and minuses have been debated 
widely.
¨The administration is trying hard to avoid using the words "wealth 
taxes" to describe this proposal, but that is sophistry. Janet Yellen's 
claims notwithstanding, this is a wealth tax, albeit on incremental 
wealth, rather than total wealth. 
¨Put simply, this proposal is biased towards people with inherited 
wealth, invested in non-traded assets and mature businesses, and 
against people invested in publicly traded equities in growth 
companies, many of which they have started and built up. 
¨If that is the message that the tax law writers want to send, they 
should at least have the decency to be up front about that 
message, and to defend it.
16
Why should you care?
¨ Price Effects:If there is a billionaire tax on unrealized gains, some or even many of 
these billionaires will have to sell portions of their asset holdings to pay taxes 
dues. There is no way that an Elon Musk would have been able to pay taxes on the 
unrealized gains on his T esla holdings in 2020, without selling a portion of his 
holding. While there may be enough liquidity in a stock like T esla to absorb that 
selling, there are other assets where the liquidity effect is going to be larger and 
more permanent.
¨ Founder/Managers: One reason that investors prefer companies that have 
founders with substantial stock holdings running them is because they believe 
that there is less of a conflict of interest in these firms. If this proposal is pushed 
through, and especially if the tax rate is set at capital gains levels, founders will 
have no choice but to reduce holdings over time, both to pay taxes and to shift to 
less traded assets.
¨ Public to Private: As I said earlier, I am not sure how privately held businesses will 
be treated, for computing the billionaire tax, but if there is indeed a carve out for 
these businesses, I will predict that there will be more companies where rich 
founders will choose to take the company private again.
17
In conclusion..
¨Those working on these tax code changes face a tough task, given 
the constraints that they have on them (not raising tax rates, not 
taxing people who make less than $400,000), but these are 
constraints that they imposed on themselves, either because too 
much was promised on campaign trails or because they are 
working with paper-thin majorities, where one hold out can stop 
the process. 
¨The problem with the billionaire taxes is that it will be ineffective 
at collecting tax revenues, and I am willing to wager that a 
decade from now, we will find that it collected only a small 
fraction of its promised revenues. 
¨Good intentions about creating a better social safety net cannot 
excuse the writing of tax laws that are inefficient at collecting 
revenues, ineffective even in its punitive intent and potentially 
dangerous for the rest of us, in terms side costs.
