Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TariffCrisis.pdf

Insearchofinvestmentserenity!
§I was boarding a plane for a trip to Latin America late in the 
evening last Wednesday (April 2), when I saw the tariff news 
announcement.  Coming after three days where the market 
seemed to have found its bearings (at least partially), it was clear 
from the initial reactions in markets across the world that the 
breadth and the magnitude of the tariffs had caught most by 
surprise, and that a market markdown was coming. 
§Not surprisingly, the markets opened down on Thursday and spent the 
next two days in that mode, down by 10% or more by close of trade on 
Friday. 
§I wrestled with all ofthe emotions that come with a market 
meltdown, including confusion, denial and panic, and tried to make 
sense of what had happened and more importantly of what is 
coming. 
§That thinking is still a work-in-progress but as in prior crises, I find 
that putting even unfinished thoughts down on paper is healthy, 
and perhaps a critical component to finding your way back to 
serenity.
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
Aswath Damodaran 6
¨8
Aswath Damodaran 9
Aswath Damodaran 10
§Itisstill early in the process, butlookingatthemarketcarnage
onThursday(April3)andFriday(April4), thedominant theme 
that emerges is of a marking down of equity values to reflect a 
fundamental change in the global economic order.
§While there was undoubtedly some panic selling on Friday, the 
flight to safety has not been as pronounced as you would 
expect it to be, when you lose $9 trillion in equity value in two 
days.
§Treasury rates are down by only 0.26% in those two days
§There is littedifference between the stock performance of safer 
(lower PE, higher dividend paying) stocks and riskier (higher PE, 
money-losing, non-dividend paying) stocks.
§At least so far, this does not look like a momentum-trade reversal, 
where the biggest winners of last year are being sold off.
§For investors:  The lesson that many investors get out of looking 
at past crises is that markets come back from even the worst 
meltdowns, and that contrarian investing with a long time
horizon always works. While that may be comforting, this lesson 
ignores the reality that the fact that a catastrophe did not occur 
does not imply that the probability of it occurring was always 
zero. Markets assess risks in real time.
§For regulators: To the extent that crises expose the weakest 
seams in markets and businesses, regulators often come in with 
fixes for those seams, mostly by dealing with the symptoms, 
rather than the causes.
§Forresearchers: With the benefit of hindsight, regulators weave 
stories about crises that are built around their own priors, by 
selectively picking up dataitemsthat supportthem.
§After shocks:  The tariff story will have after shocks, with both 
negatives (other countries imposing their own tariffs, and the 
US responding) and positives (countries dropping tariffs and 
the US resetting). Those after shocks will create more market 
volatility, and if history is any guide, there is more downside in 
the near term.
§Real economy (near term): In the near term, the real economy 
will slow down, with the only plus being that while tariff-related 
price increases are coming, a cooling down in commodity and 
housing prices will dampen inflation. 
§Real economy (long term):  Global economic growthwillslow,
andtheUS,astheworld’slargesteconomy,willslowwithit.
§"I told you so" group,  eager to tell you that this is the big one, 
the threat that they have spent a decade or more warning you 
about. They will of course not let on that if you had followed 
their advice, you would have been invested in cash for the last 
decade, and even with a market crash, you would not be made 
hold again. 
§”Knee jerk contrarians", arguing that stock markets always 
come back, and that every market dip is a buying opportunity. 
§”I cannot decide” group, who will present every side of the 
argument, conclude that there is too much uncertainty right 
now to either buy or sell, but to wait until the uncertainty 
passes. There are elements of truth in all three arguments, but 
they all have blind spots.
§Cash needs and time horizon: If you are or will soon be in need 
ofcash, to pay for health care, buy a home or pay tuition, you 
should take the cash out now. 
§Macro views: As you can see, the effects on markets and the real 
economy will depend on how you see the tariffs playing out, with 
the outcomes ranging from an open trade war (with tariffs and 
counter tariffs) to a partial trade war (with some countries 
capitulating and others fighting) to a complete clearing of the air
(where the tariff threat is scaled down or put on the back burner). 
This is less about economics and more about game theory, where 
an expert poker player may be better positioned to forecast what 
will happen than an economic think tank.
§Investment philosophy: I have long argued (and teach a class to 
that effect) that every investor needs an investment philosophy, 
attuned to his or her personal make up. That philosophy starts 
with a set of beliefsabout how markets make mistakes and 
corrects them, and manifests in strategiesdesigned to take 
advantage of those mistakes.
§Daily ERP: As in prior crises, I will continue to monitor the equity risk 
premiums, treasury rates and the expected return on stocks every day until I 
feel comfortable enough to let go. 
§Revalue companies in my portfolio and act on that value: While I was 
comfortable with the companies in my portfolio on March 28, viewing them as 
under valued or at least not over valued enough to merit a sell, the tariffs may 
have an significant effect on their values, and I plan to take them in batches, 
starting with my big tech holdings (the Mag Five, since I did sell Tesla and most 
of my Nvidia holdings) and working through the rest.
§Buy value:There are companies that I believe are great companies but are 
priced so highly by the market that I think of them as sub-standard investments 
and choose not to invest. During a crisis, where investors often sell without 
discrimination, there companies can become buys, and I have tobe ready. 
Since buying in the face of a market meltdown can require fortitude that I may 
not have, I have been scouring my list of great companies, revaluing them with 
the tariff effects built in, and putting buys at limit prices below those values. 
§Go back to living:I plan on living my life, enjoying life's small pleasures, like a 
Ya n ke e  w in  o rtakingmydog for a walk, to big ones, like celebrating my 
granddaughter's birthday in a couple of days.
