Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2026.pdf

DATA UPDATE 3 FOR 2026: THE 
TRUST DEFICIT –FROMBONDS
TOGOLDTOBITCOIN!
A tale of two (or three) markets?
2
A year of living dangerously!
¨In my last post, I talked about the disconnect between the bad news 
stories that we reading and the solid performance of USequities during 
2025. 
¨In this one, I want to focus on four news stories from last year –the tariffs
announced at theendofMarch,the downgrade of the US, the longest 
shutdown in US government history and unprecedented challenges to 
the Fed's perceived independence -and examine how they played out in 
the rest of the market. 
¨I will start with a look at US treasuries, which should have been in the eye 
of the storm in all three of the stories, move on to to currencies, with a 
focus on the US dollar, then to gold & silver and close off with bitcoin. 
¨We will argue that a loss of trust in institutions (governments, central 
banks, regulatory authorities), albeit with wide variation across investors, 
was the thread that best explains their performance.
3
TheRoleofTrust!
¨We often underestimate how much of the modern global 
economy and financial markets are built on trust -in central 
banks to preserve the buying power in currencies, in 
governments and businesses to honor their contractual 
commitments and in legal systems to enforce that they do. 
¨That trust can be tenuous, and when violated or even 
questioned, the consequences can be catastrophic. 
¨In fact, one of the divides between developed and emerging 
markets for much of the last century was on the trust 
dimension, with the implicit assumption that emerging 
countries well trustworthy than developed countries. 
¨That clear distinction has been muddied in the twenty first 
century, as crises and political developments have undercut 
trust even in institutions across the board.
4
The Trust Testing News Stories
¨The first of the developments was on the tariff front, where decades of 
progress towards reducing barriers to trade was upended by liberation 
day (on March 31, 2025), where the US imposed what seemed like 
arbitrary tariffs on countries, but made those tariffs punitively large. 
¨Just two weeks later, on April 16, 2025, Moody’s lowered its rating for the 
US, albeit marginally to Aa1, reducing the number of Aaarated countries 
to eight. 
¨On October 1, 2025, the US government went into shutdown mode, as 
congress balked at increasing the debt limit for the country, and this one 
stretched into weeks, before an agreement was reached to reopen the 
government on November 12, 2025.
¨In the final months of the year, the independence of the Federal Reserve 
became a subject of discussion as news stories and pronouncements on 
social media suggested that the administration was seeking to put its 
imprint on monetary policy, through its nominees.
5
The Reasons
¨While Donald Trump is the facile answer to why trust is 
slipping, the truth is that in each case, the slippage has 
been occurring over the last two decades. 
¤The push towardsbarrier-free global trade started running out 
of steam a decade or more ago, as the costs of that trade 
created political backlash. 
¤The Moody's ratings downgrade followed downgrades by S&P , 
in 2011, and Fitch, in 2023, partly in reaction to government 
deficit/borrowing and partly to political dysfunction. 
¤The Fed's much-vaunted independence has always been built 
more on norms rather that legal strictures, and administrations 
through the decades have managed to nudge central banks to 
adopt their preferred path, and especially so in the aftermath of 
the pandemic.
6
US Treasuries in 2025
7
Treasury Yield Curve in 2025
8
Sovereign Default Risk?
9
Higher inflation?
10
The Fed’s Independence Day!
11
Corporate Bonds: The Story with Spreads
12
The US Dollar
13
Gold and Silver
14
Gold and Inflation!
15
Silver rises, relatively…
16
Bitcoin, currency or collectible?
17
And asset co-movements…
18
Thestorythatbinds…
¨The big news stories of the year, from the ratings downgrade to the 
government shutdown to the soap opera of who would lead the 
Fed all fed into a storyline of fraying trust in US institutions. 
¨While that trust deficit should have led to rising interest rates and 
a tough year for bonds, the actual bond market performance, like 
equities in the prior post, suggested that markets were not 
swayed. 
¨That does not mean that no one cared, since a subset of investors
were concerned enough about the trust issue to push the dollar 
down and put gold and silver prices on a stratospheric upward 
path. 
¨Bitcoin remained the outlier, moving more with stocks and bonds, 
albeit without their upside (at least this year), and less with 
collectibles.
