Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaGoingPrivate.pdf

THE PRIVATIZATION OF TESLA: 
STRAY TWEET OR DEAL T0 COME?
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Musk Tweet
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
¨ Even by Musk's own standards, his tweet on August 7 that 
Tesla would be going private, adding both a price ($420) and 
a postscript (that funding had been secured), was a news 
maker, posing the stock up more than 10% for the day. 
¨ The questions that have followed have been wide ranging, 
from whether Tesla is a good candidate for "going private" to 
the mechanics of how it will do so (about funding and 
structure) to the legality of conveying a market-moving news 
story in a tweet.
3
Public versus Private: Business Trade off
Aswath 
Damodaran
3
Private Business Publicly traded firm
Access to capital Less                                                                                    More
Access to capital, especially in large amounts, is easier for publicly traded 
companies than for private businesses, who are more dependent on VCs 
and PE funds.
Information Disclosure Less                                                                                    More
Disclosure requirements, both for financial data and for any news that 
may move prices are more stringent and onerous for public companies 
than for private businesses.
Control and Governance Investor negotiated                       Corporate Governance Laws 
In private businesses, the founders and investors (VCs and PE investors) 
negotiate how control is shared, but control rests with insiders. In public 
companies, the corporate governance rules are set by laws and backed 
by regulators and opened up to outsiders (investors with shares).                                                                         
Monitoring Internal                                                                       External
The monitoring of a private company’s operations and results is internal 
and oriented to its investors (VC, PE and founder). Public companies are 
followed by equity analysts from both the buy and sell-side and their 
questioning will reflect what they view as important for determining 
pricing.  
Pricing Negotiated & Infrequent              Market-set & Continuous 
With private companies, the pricing of the company is usually estimated 
at the time new capital is raised and is a negotiated number . With public 
companies, the market sets the price and does so continuously.
4
Public versus Private: Investor Perspective
Aswath Damodaran
4
Private Business Publicly traded firm
Design flexibility High                                                                                 Low
When investing in equity in a private business, you have lots of flexibility in 
how the investment is designed; many VCs build in protection against future 
dilution and lower pricing. With public companies, it is more of one size fits 
all, though you can have shares with different voting & cash flow rights.
Liquidity Low                                                                                   High
An investment in a private business is much less liquid than an equivalent 
investment in a public company. Put differently, there will be a much higher 
cost to getting in and out of the investment.
Information Disclosure Negotiated                                                                    Mandated
Private business investors are entitled to less mandated disclosure than 
public company investors, but they can ask for and get information that 
might not be accessible in public markets
Control and Governance Investor negotiated                       Corporate Governance Laws 
The control that investors have in private companies is determined by how 
much power they have negotiated for themselves. The control that investors 
have in public companies stems from how voting rights are distributed 
across shares and the effectiveness of corporate governance mechanisms 
(board of directors, voting rules).
5
Public to Private: The Right Candidate
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨ This transition makes sense if a public company 
n that does not need access to large amounts of new capital to 
continue operating
n where the market is under pricing the company, relative to its 
intrinsic value
n that feels the actions that it needs to take in its best long term 
interests will either create public backlash (layoffs and plant 
closures) or adverse market reactions (because of the effect 
that they will have on metrics that investors are focused 
upon.)
¨ Target: Aging companies (no growth, no capital needed), 
trading at prices that are below their peer group (lower 
multiples of earnings or cash flows) and that need to 
shrink or slim down to keep operating.
6
Is Tesla a good candidate?
¨ If It is a growing company and it needs new capital to not only 
deliver on its growth promise but to survive for the next few 
years. 
¨ If markets are punishing Tesla by under pricing the company, 
they are doing so in a very strange manner,giving it a higher 
market capitalization than much larger, more profitable 
automobile companies, ignoring large losses and generally 
tolerant of Elon Musk's errant behavior . 
¨ It is true that there was substantial drama and market 
volatility around the 5000 cars/week production target, but 
almost all of the drama in this episode, from setting the 
target (5000 cars/week) to the constant tweets about 
whether the targets would be met, was generated by Elon 
Musk, not the market.
7
Public to Private: The Funding
8
Public to Private: Classic Buyout
9
Public to Private: Tesla’s Painless Solution
10
Why it may not be plausible
¨ It may not be legal: The deal may not pass legal muster, since 
the SEC restricts private companies to having less than 2000 
shareholders, and Tesla has far more than that number . It is 
true that you might be able to create a fund that has 
individual shareholders, which then holds equity in the 
private company, like Uber has, but that fund is restricted to 
very wealthy, big investors, and the SEC may be unwilling to 
go along with a structure where there are thousands of small 
stockholders in the fund. 
¨ It may not be viable: The second is that even if Tesla manages 
to get regulatory approval for this unconventional set up, 
many shareholders may choose to cash out at $420, if the 
company goes private, even if they think that the shares are 
worth more, because they value liquidity.
11
A Big Partner?
¨ Tesla's large market capitalization and cash burning status work 
against it, reducing the number of potential players in the game.  At 
the limit, if all existing shareholders, other than Musk, cash out at 
$420/share, you would need about $55-$60 billion in funding. No 
sovereign fund or passive investment vehicle can afford to have 
that much money tied up in one company, and especially one that 
will need more capital infusions in the future. 
¨ Even the biggest private equity and venture capital investors, 
generally more willing to hold concentrated positions, will be hard 
pressed to put this much capital, for the same reasons. The only 
name that you can come up with that has even the possibility of 
pulling this off is Softbank, for three reasons:
¤ They may be big enough to make the investment
¤ They have and are invested in young, growth companies
¤ They have a history with Tesla
12
So, where is the ”secured funding”?
¨ It is at this point that the "secured funding" claim 
that Musk made in his initial tweet comes into 
question. 
¤ If the statement is true, he has either found an inept bank 
that will lend tens of billions to a money losing company 
with an undisciplined CEO, or a private equity investor who 
is willing to make the largest PE investment in history, 
while allowing Musk to continue running the company, 
with no checks and balances. 
¤ If the statement is false, we will be seeing lawyers debating 
the meaning of the words "secured" and "funding" for a 
while.
13
A Simpler Explanation: Occam’s Razor at 
Work
¨ This entire post has been premised on the notion 
that Elon Musk had done his homework and that he 
intended to send a serious signal to markets about a 
future buyout. 
¨ Given Musk's history of impetuous and personal 
tweets, that premise might be completely wrong, in 
which case the explanation for this episode may be 
far simpler and rooted in the war with short sellers 
that Musk has been fighting for a while.
14
Musk hates short sellers
¨ Musk is convinced, rightly or wrongly, that short 
sellers in Tesla are conspiring to bring not just the 
stock price, but the entire company, down. 
¨ He is obsessed with short sellers and spends a 
disproportionate amount of his time and attention 
on bringing them down. 
¨ So, it is true that short sellers are a distraction to the 
company, but only because Elon Musk has made it 
so.
15
The short sellers hate Musk
¨ Many of the short sellers in Tesla seem to be just as 
obsessed with Musk and are convinced that he is a 
scam artist. 
¨ I have a sneaking feeling that for many of them, 
winning will mean not just making money on their 
Tesla positions, but seeing the company cease to 
exist (and taking Musk down with it).
16
When investing gets personal, nothing 
good follows!
¨ Investing is a difficult game, to begin with, but it becomes 
doubly so, when it becomes personal. Just as it is dangerous 
to fall in love with a company that you have invested in, it is 
just as dangerous to bet against a company because you hate 
its management and want it to fail. 
¨ I think both sides of the Tesla short selling game are so 
infected with personal bias that they may do or say things 
that are not in their best long term investing interests. 
¨ I hope, for Tesla's sake, that Musk's personal dislike of short 
sellers did not lead him to tweet out that Tesla would go 
private. with both the price ($420) and the "secured funding" 
being spur of the moment inventions. In his zeal to make 
short sellers pay, he may have handed them the weapon they 
need to bring him down.
