Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2022.pdf

DATA UPDATE 3 FOR 2022: 
INFLATION, INTEREST RATES AND 
RETURNS!
The Inflation Factor
2
Inflation is back.. Or not…
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨Inflation numbers have been coming in high now, for more 
than a year, but for much of the early part of 2021, bankers, 
investors and politicians seemed to be either in denial or 
casually dismissive of its potential for damage. 
¤Initially, the high inflation numbers were attributed to the speed with 
the economy was recovering from COVID, and once that excuse fell 
flat, it was the supply chain that was help responsible. 
¨By the end of 2021, it was clear that this bout of inflation was 
not as transient a phenomenon as some had made it out to 
be, and the big question leading in 2022, for investors and 
markets, is how inflation will play out during the year, and 
beyond, and the consequences for stocks, bonds and 
currencies.
3
Inflation: Competing measures (of past 
inflation)
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
And expected inflation…
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
With rising investors concerns…
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
Summing up.. Where we are now..
¨The undeniable fact is that inflation came back in 2021, 
but the question of why it happened, and whether it will 
stay high, is hotly debated. 
¤To those who believe that it is a spike that will dissipate over 
time, it is another casualty of COVID, as a combination of virus-
driven supply chain issues and government spending to offset 
shutdowns has driven prices up. In this mostly benign story, 
inflation will go back down, once these pressure ease, though it 
is unclear to what level. 
¤To others, and especially those old enough to remember the 
1970s, it does seem like a return to more unsettled times, with 
potentially dangerous consequences for the economy and 
markets.
7
US Treasuries: The Year that was…
8
Corporate Bonds: The Year that was..
9
Interest Rates and Inflation
10
Expected and Unexpected Inflation
¨It isexpected inflation that drives interest rates, and that the actual 
inflation rate can come in above or belowexpectations. 
¨There is a contrast betweenexpected and unexpected inflation, 
arguing that financial assets are affected differently by each 
component. 
¤If expected inflation is high, but it is predictable, investors and businesses 
have the opportunity to incorporate that inflation into their decision 
making, with investors demanding higher interest rates on bond and 
expected returns on stocks, and businesses raising prices on their 
products/services to cover expected inflation. 
¤Unexpected inflation is what catches us off guard, with unexpectedly high 
inflation leading to a reassessment of pricing (for all financial assets) and 
an uneven impact across businesses, leaving those with pricing power in a 
better position than those without that power .
11
Unexpected Inflation and Financial 
Assets…
12
With a follow up…
13
Unexpected Inflation and Stock 
Groupings..
14
Unexpected Inflation and Real Asset 
Returns..
15
Inflation and Currencies
¨Much of this post has been about inflation in the US, 
and by extension, in US dollar terms, it is worth 
emphasizing that inflation is a currency-
specificphenomenon. 
¨While inflation in the US dollar, by dint of its status as 
the currencyin which commodities are priced, can 
sometimes spill over into other currencies, it remains 
true thatyou can have highinflation in one currency, 
while there is low inflation in other currencies. 
¨Inflation differences across currencies play out in two 
domains, with the first being interest rates in different 
currencies and the other being exchange rate.
16
Currency Risk free Rates
17
Riskfree Rates and Differential Inflation
¨I am using the default spreads based upon the local currency sovereign 
ratings for the countries in question, with the government bond rate 
being the risk free rate only for currencies where the issuinggovernment 
in triple-A rated. I
¨If you dislike this assumption, or do not believe that thegovernment bond 
rate is a market-set number in a particular market, there is a second 
approach, where you start with the risk free rate in US dollar or Euros, 
and adjust it for differential inflation, i.e., the difference inexpected 
inflation between the US and the countryin question:
18
Exchange Rates and Inflation
¨Just asinterest rates in currencies aredetermined, in large 
part, by inflationdifferentials,exchange rates over time are 
also driven by those same inflationdifferentials. Drawing 
onone of the oldest relationships in exchange rates, 
purchasing power parity, you can extract the forward 
exchange rate in a currency:
19
Investment Implications
¨If you believe that inflation will stay high, not just in theUS, 
butacross the globe, the exchange rate effects will be muted. 
¨If, on the other hand, you believe that the inflation shock will vary 
across countries, your actions will be more nuanced. 
¤For the countries where you believe that local inflation will decrease, 
relative to the US, the US dollar will weaken against their currencies, 
augmenting returns you will earn in their markets (stock or bond). 
¤For countries, where you see local inflationsurging more than you expect 
to see in the US, the US dollar willstrengthen against their currencies, 
reducing the returns youmake in their markets. 
¨As with the discussion of asset returns, it is not expected inflation 
that is the source of exchange rate risk, since you canincorporate 
those expectations into exchange rates, but unexpected inflation, 
which, when extreme, can cause significant revaluations 
ofcurrencies.
20
Conclusion
¨As with any historical data assessment, I could give you the 
standardboilerplate disclaimer that past performance is not 
always a good predictor of the past, but to the extent that the 
past provides signals, your expectations of how inflation will 
play out in thecoming year will play a key role inyourasset 
allocation and stock selection decisions. 
¤If you believe that last year's surge in inflation is a precursor to a long 
time period when inflation is likely to stay high, and comein above 
expectations, you should be shifting yourholdings away from financial 
to real assets, andwithin your equityholdings, towards small cap 
stocks, stocks trading at lower pricing multiples (PE, Price to Book) and 
companies with more pricing power. 
¤If, on the other hand, you believe that inflation worries are overdone, 
and that there will be a reversion back to the low inflation that we 
have seen in the last decade, staying invested in stocks, and especially 
in larger cap and high growth stocks, even if richly priced, makes sense.
