Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BitcoinAsset.pdf

THE	BITCOIN	BOOM:	ASSET ,	
COMMODITY ,	CURRENCY	OR	
COLLECTIBLE?
Value	vs.	Price,	Trade	vs	Invest
2
To	Infinity	and	Beyond:	Bitcoin’s	Boom	
Continues
3
Classifying	Investments
1. Cash	flow	generating	assets:	Generate	cash	flows	now	
or	are	expected	to	do	so	in	the	future.	Can	be	a	fixed	
cash	flow	claim,	a	residual	claim	or	a	contingent	claim.
2. Commodities:	Used	as	raw	material	to	meet	another	
need	(energy,	food	etc.).
3. Currencies:	Measure	of	cash	flows,	medium	of	
exchange	or	store	of	value.
4. Collectibles:	May	have	aesthetic	or	emotional	value	but	
derives	its	pricing	from	its	scarcity	(supply)	and	the	
perception	of	others	that	it	is	wanted.
4
Value	versus	Price
To	value To price
Assets Can	be	valued	based	upon
expected	cashflows,	with	
higher	cashflows &	lower	
risk	=	higher	value.
Can	be	priced	against	
similar	assets,	after	
controlling for	cash	flows	
and	risk.
Commodity Can	be	value	based	upon	
utilitarian	demand	and	
supply,	but	with	long	lags
in	both.
Can	be priced	against	its	
own	history	(normalized	
price	over	time)
Currency Cannot	be	value Can	be priced	against	
other	currencies,	with	
greater	acceptance	&	more	
stable	purchasing	power	=	
higher	price.
Collectible Cannot	be	value Can	be	priced based	upon	
scarcity	and	desirability.
5
Trading	versus	Investing
The	Pricing	Game The	Value	Game
Underlying	philosophy
The	price	is	the	only	real	number	that	you	can	act	on.	No	one	
knows	what	the	value	of	an	asset	is	and	estimating	it	is	of	little	
use.
Every	asset	has	a	fair	or	true	value.	You	can	estimate	that	value,	
albeit	with	error,	and	price	has	to	converge	on	value	(eventually).
To	play	the	game
You	try	to	guess	which	direction	the	price	will	move	in	the	next	
period(s)	and	trade	ahead	of	the	movement.	To	win	the	game,	you	
have	to	be	right	more	often	than	wrong	about	direction	and	to	
exit	before	the	winds	shift.
You	try	to	estimate	the	value	of	an	asset,	and	if	it	is	under(over)	
value,	you	buy	(sell)	the	asset.	To	win	the	game,	you	have	to	be	
right	about	value	(for	the	most	part)	and	the	market	price	has	to	
move	to	that	value
Key	drivers Price	is	determined	by	demand	&amp;	supply,	which	in	turn	are	
affected	by	mood	and	momentum. Value	is	determined	by	cash	flows,	growth	and	risk.
Information	effect
Incremental	information	(news,	stories,	rumors)	that	shifts	the	
mood	will	move	the	price,	even	if	it	has	no	real	consequences	for	
long	term	value.
Only	information	that	alter	cash	flows,	growth	and	risk	in	a	
material	way	can	affect	value.
Tools	of	the	game (1)	Technical	indicators,	(2)	Price	Charts	(3)	Investor	Psychology (1)	Ratio	analysis,	(2)	DCF	Valuation	(3)	Accounting	Research
Time	horizon Can	be	very	short	term	(minutes)	to	mildly	short	term	(weeks,	
months). Long	term
Key	skill Be	able	to	gauge	market	mood/momentum	shifts	earlier	than	the	
rest	of	the	market. Be	able	to	“value”	assets,	given	uncertainty.
Key	personality	traits (1)	Market	amnesia	(2)	Quick	Actiing	(3)	Gambling	Instincts (1)	Faith	in	“value”	(2)	Faith	in	markets	(3)	Patience	(4)	Immunity	
from	peer	pressure
Biggest	Danger(s) Momentum	shifts	can	occur	quickly,	wiping	out	months	of	profits	
in	a	few	hours. The	price	may	not	converge	on	value,	even	if	your	value	is	“right”.
Added	bonus Capacity	to	move	prices	(with	lots	of	money	and	lots	of	followers). Can	provide	the	catalyst	that	can	move	price	to	value.
Most	Delusional	Player A	trader	who	thinks	he	is	trading	based	on	value. A	value	investor	who	thinks	he	can	reason	with	markets.
6
What	is	Bitcoin?
¨ Bitcoin	is	not	an	asset,	since	it	does	not	generate	cash	
flows	standing	alone	for	those	who	hold	it	(until	you	sell	
it)	and	it	is	not	a	commodity,	because	it	is	not	raw	
material	that	can	be	used	in	the	production	of	
something	useful.	
¨ The	choice	then	becomes	whether	it	is	a	currency	or	a	
collectible,	with	its	supporters	tilting	towards	the	former	
and	its	detractors	the	latter .
¨ Bitcoin	is	a	currency,	but	it	is	not	a	good	one	yet,	insofar	
as	it	has	only	limited	acceptance	as	a	medium	of	
exchange	and	it	is	too	volatile	to	be	a	store	of	value.
7
Three	Currency	Pathways	for	Bitcoin
¨ The	Global	Digital	Currency:	In	the	best	case	scenario,	Bitcoin	gains	wide	
acceptance	in	transactions	across	the	world,	becoming	a	widely	used	global	digital	
currency.	If	that	happens,	it	could	compete	with	fiat	currencies	and	given	the	
algorithm	set	limits	on	its	creation,	its	high	price	could	be	justified.
¨ Gold	for	Millennials:	In	this	scenario,	Bitcoin	becomes	a	haven	for	those	who	do	
not	trust	central	banks,	governments	and	fiat	currencies.	In	short,	it	takes	on	the	
role	that	gold	has,	historically,	for	those	who	have	lost	trust	in	or	fear	centralized	
authority.	If	this	scenario	unfolds,	and	Bitcoin	shows	the	same	staying	power	as	
gold,	it	will	behave	like	gold	does,	rising	during	crises	and	dropping	in	more	
sanguine	time	periods.	
¨ The	21st	Century	Tulip	Bulb:	In	this,	the	worst	case	scenario,	Bitcoin	is	like	a	
shooting	star,	attracting	more	money	as	it	soars,	from	those	who	see	it	as	a	source	
of	easy	profits,	but	just	as	quickly	flares	out	as	these	traders	move	on	to	
something	new	and	different.	If	this	happens,	Bitcoin	could	very	well	become	the	
equivalent	of	Tulip	Bulbs,	a	speculative	asset	that	saw	its	prices	soar	in	the	sixteen	
hundreds	in	Holland,	before	collapsing	in	the	aftermath.
8
Reality	Checks
¨ Bitcoin	is	not	an	asset	class:	To	those	who	are	carving	out	a	portion	of	their	
portfolios	for	Bitcoin,	be	clear	about	why	you	are	doing	it.	It	is	not	because	you	
want	to	a	diversified	portfolio	and	hold	all	asset	classes,	it	is	because	you	want	to	
use	your	trading	skills	on	Bitcoin	to	supercharge	your	portfolio	returns.	
¨ You	cannot	value	Bitcoin,	you	can	only	price	it:	Any	one	who	claims	to	value	
Bitcoin	either	has	a	very	different	definition	of	value	than	I	do	or	is	just	making	up	
stuff	as	he	or	she	goes	along.
¨ It	will	be	judged	as	a	currency:	In	the	long	term,	the	price	that	you	attach	to	
Bitcoin	will	depend	on	how	well	it	will	performs	as	a	currency.	If	it	is	accepted	
widely	as	a	medium	of	exchange	and	is	stable	enough	to	be	a	store	of	value,	it	
should	command	a	high	price.	
¨ You	don't	invest	in	Bitcoin,	you	trade	it:	Since	you	cannot	value	Bitcoin,	you	don't	
have	a	critical	ingredient	that	you	need	to	be	an	investor .	You	can	trade	Bitcoin	
and	become	wealthy	doing	so,	but	it	is	because	you	are	a	good	trader .
¨ Good	trader	ingredients:	To	be	a	successful	trader	in	Bitcoin,	you	need	to	
recognize	that	moves	in	its	price	will	have	little	do	with	fundamentals,	everything	
to	do	with	mood	and	momentum	and	big	price	shifts	can	happen	on	incremental	
information.
9
What	next?
¨ Would	I	buy	Bitcoin	at	$6,100?	
¤ No,	but	not	because	I	believe	that	it	is	over	valued,	since	I	
cannot	make	that	judgment	without	valuing	it	and	as	I	noted	
before,	it	cannot	be	valued.	
¤ It	is	because	I	am	not	and	never	have	been	a	good	trader	and,	as	
a	consequence,	my	pricing	judgments	are	suspect.	
¤ If	you	have	good	trading	instincts,	you	should	play	the	pricing	
game,	as	long	as	you	recognize	that	it	is	a	game,	where	you	can	
win	millions	or	lose	millions,	based	upon	your	calls	on	
momentum.	
n If	you	win	millions,	I	wish	you	the	best!	
n If	you	lose	millions,	please	don't	let	paranoia	lead	you	to	
blame	the	establishment,	banks	and	governments	for	why	you	
lost.
