Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate6.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE VI: THE 
PRICE OF RISK
Dynamic, not static…
2
The crisis updates continued…
¨ It is a sign of how volatile that the last few weeks that a 
week like the last one, where index levels move only 2-
3% a day, huge by historic standards, felt stable. 
¨ As in prior weeks, I will start this one by looking at how 
the market action played out across asset classes, and 
within equity, across regions and industries first
¨ The bulk of this post will be an update on the price of 
risk and how it has changed in both bond and stock 
markets over the last six weeks. 
¨ In the process, I will compare this crisis to the 2008 
crisis, which was also global and shook the faith people 
had in markets, institutions and companies.
3
The markets last week: Equities
4
The markets last week: Treasuries
5
The markets last week: Corporate Bonds
6
The markets last week: Commodities
7
The markets last week: Gold & Bitcoin
8
Equities: By Region
9
Equities: By Sector
10
Equities: Most & least damaged Industries
11
Equities: By Class
¨ I also did the breakdown, looking at companies in PE 
classes, momentum classes (based upon price change 
over the year leading into 2/14/20, net debt classes and 
dividend/buyback classes).
¨ I found that the only categorization where there is 
significant differentiation is net debt, where more highly 
levered companies continue to be punished more than 
less levered companies.
¨ In short, there is no evidence so far that the punishment 
is being meted out to the stocks that have benefited the 
most from the long up run in stock prices.
12
Equities; By bond rating…
13
The price of risk: Determinants
¨ The price of risk changes on a day -to-day basis, and is determined by a 
combination of variables that encompass almost everything going on in 
the world from 
¤ uncertainty about future economic growth (more uncertainty -> higher price for 
risk) to 
¤ political stability (more instability -> higher price for risk) to 
¤ worries about catastrophes/disasters (more worries -> higher price for risk) to 
¤ investor risk aversion (greater risk aversion -> higher price for risk) to 
¤ information availability/reliability (less reliable and accessible information -> higher 
risk premiums). 
¨ The more general point though that emerges from identifying the 
determinants is that changes in these determinants will play out as 
changing prices for risk, and since investing and valuation has to be based 
upon current and update prices for risk, you need measurement 
approaches that capture these day -to-day changes.
14
A Bond Market Price of Risk
15
Bond Default Spreads during the 2008 crisis
16
Bond Market Default Spreads: The COVID crisis
17
Equity Risk: VIX
18
An Equity Market Price of Risk
19
With historical perspective
20
The 2008 Crisis
21
The COVID crisis
22
Country Risk Premiums: Resetting the base 
numbers
Red: ERP on 4/1/20
Green: ERP on 1/1/20
ERP : April 1, 2020
Aswath Damodaran
24
In conclusion…
¨ One of the biggest lessons that I learned from the 2008 crisis was 
to move away from static approaches for computing equity risk 
premiums, dependent on looking at long periods of history. 
¨ The lessons that I learned during the last three months of 2008 
made me switch completely to using implied equity risk premiums 
in my valuation and corporate financial analysis and to compute 
them on a monthly basis. 
¨ This crisis has reinforced that practice. I have always found it 
difficult to grasp how companies can use hurdle rates that are not 
only set in stone, but set in stone a decade or two ago, even as the 
market environment shifts and the price of risk changes. 
¨ The median cost of capital for a global company, which was 7.6% at 
the start of 2020, is now closer to 8.5%, with the increase in risk 
premiums more than compensating for the decline in risk free 
rates.
