Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TrillionDollarCatalysts.pdf

APPLE AND AMAZON AT A 
TRILLION $: A FOLLOW UP ON 
UNCERTAINTY AND CATALYSTS
You can be right, and go bankrupt being right!
2
The Lead In
¨ In my last post, I valued Apple at $200, about 9% less 
than the market price, and Amazon at abut $1255, about 
35% lower than its market price.
¨ I concluded the post with a teaser, promising to come 
back with my decisions on whether I would sell my 
existing Apple shareholding and/or sell short on Amazon, 
after reviewing two loose ends. 
¤ The first is to lay bare the uncertainties inherent in both 
valuations, to see if there is something in those uncertainties 
that I can use to make a better decision. 
¤ The second is to evaluate whether there are catalysts that will 
convert the gap that I see between value and price into actual 
profits.
3
Uncertainty: Feature, not a Bug!
¨ When valuing companies, uncertainty is a given and 
traditional valuation models often give it short shrift. 
¨ In fact, looking at my valuations ofApple and Amazon, you 
can see that the only place that I explicitly deal with 
uncertainty is in the discount rate.
¨ My cash flows reflect my expectations, and I don't believe 
that I know, with precision, what will happen to Apple's 
revenue growth over time or how Amazon's operating margin 
will evolve in the future. 
¨ So, why bother? In investing, you have no choice but to make 
your best estimates and value companies, knowing fully well 
that you will be wrong, no matter how much information you 
have and how good your models are.
4
Point Estimates & Probabilistic Approaches
¨ It is puzzling that we still stick with point estimates in 
conventional valuation, when we have the tools to bring 
in uncertainty into our valuation judgments. 
¨ Statistical tools that can help:
¤ Scenario Analysis: For valuing companies that may have different 
valuations depending upon specific and usually discrete 
scenarios unfolding
¤ Decision Trees: For valuing companies that face sequential risk, 
i.e., you have to get through one phase of risk to arrive at the 
next one,
¤ Monte Carlo Simulations: The most general technique that can 
accommodate continuous and even correlated risks that you 
face in valuation.
5
Apple Simulation
6
Amazon Simulation
7
Simulation Lessons
¨ Not about getting better estimates of value: Since my input distributions 
are centered around my base case assumptions, and they should be, the 
median values across the simulations are close to my base case valuations 
for both Apple and Amazon.
¨ If it is a risk proxy, it is a very noisy and dangerous one: As a diversified 
investor, the variance in simulated values is a poor proxy for risk. 
However, if you are an investor who prefers concentrated portfolios, you 
can use the variance in simulated value as a measure of risk.
¨ There can be no one margin of safety for all companies: A 15% margin of 
safety for Apple may be too large, given how tightly values are distributed 
for the company, whereas the same 15% margin of safety may be too 
small for Amazon, with its wider band of values.
¨ Tails matter In general, positive skewed distributions are better for (long) 
investors than negatively skewed ones, and the reverse is true for 
investors who are shorting a company.
8
The Implications for Apple and Amazon
¨ While my base case valuation suggested that Apple was far less 
over valued (10%) than Amazon (55%), there is roughly a 15-20% 
chance that both companies are under valued, not over valued.
¨ In addition, with Amazon, there is the added risk, if you are selling 
short, given the long positive tail on the distribution, that if I am 
wrong, the price I will pay will be much greater than if I am wrong 
with Apple.
¨ The bottom line is that while Amazon seemed like a much better 
short selling target, after my base case valuations, because it was 
far more over valued than Apple, the simulations that I did on the 
two companies even out the scales. Apple is more over valued, but 
the probability of making money, assuming my valuations are on 
target is about the same with both stocks, and the downside of 
being wrong is far greater with Amazon than with Apple.
9
Value and Price: The Search for Catalysts
10
Long vs Short: Catalyst Importance
¨ As an investor, I look for catalysts when I invest, but but I 
am even more intent on finding them, when I sell short 
than when I am long a stock. 
¨ The reason for that divergence is that I am in far greater 
control of my time horizon, when I buy a stock, since, as 
long as I stay disciplined and retain faith in my value, 
only liquidity needs can cause me to sell.  When I sell 
short, my time horizon is far less under my control, 
exposing me to timing risk. 
¨ Put different, I can bet on a company being over valued, 
be right on my thesis, but still lose money on a short 
sale, because I am forced to close out my position, in the 
absence of a catalyst.
11
Apple and Amazon: Decision Time!
12
Bottom Line
¨ I sold my Apple shares at $220, at the start of trading on 
Friday (9/21), but while I have not sold short any more 
shares. I have put in a limit (short) sell, if the price hits $230 
(roughly my 90th percentile of value) in the near future. 
¨ With Amazon, I sold short at $1950 at the start of trading on 
Friday (9/21). I am doing so, with open eyes, since I believe 
that Amazon is in one of the best run companies in the world, 
adept at setting market expectations and beating them, and 
the catalyst that I am hoping for may never come. 
¨ It is the first time in twenty years that I have sold short on 
Amazon, and one reason that I am pulling the trigger is 
because I believe that the pushback from regulators and anti-
trust enforcers will slow the company down in ways that no 
competitor ever could.
