Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/InvestingPolitics.pdf

Globalization Backlash and Government Disruption!
§I see the world in shades of gray, and in a world where more 
and more people see only black and white, that makes me an 
outlier. Thus, if you are reading this post expecting me to post a 
diatribe or a tribute to Trump, tariffs or Tesla, you are likely to 
be disappointed. 
§The second is that much of my work is in the micro world, 
where I value companies and analyze their corporate finance 
policies, and the work that I do on macro topicsor variables 
is to help me in that pursuit. 
§That said, to value companies today , I have no choice but to 
bring in the economics and politics of the world that these 
companies inhabit. 
§The problem with doing so, though, is that it is easy to be reactive, 
and to let your political leanings drive your conclusions. That is 
why I want to step back and look at the two larger forces that have 
brought us to this moment,.
Aswath Damodaran 2
§Globalization has taken different forms through the ages, 
with some violent and toxic variants, but the currentversion of 
globalization kicked into high gear in the 1980s, transforming 
every aspect of our lives. 
§I am no historian, but in this section, I will start with a very short 
and personal history of how globalization has played out in my 
classroom, examine its winners and losers, and end with an 
assessment of how the financial crisis of 2008 caused the 
movement to crest and create a political and economic 
backlash that has led us to today.
Aswath Damodaran 3
§When I started my teaching journey at the University of California 
at Berkeley in 1984, business education was dollar-centric, with 
business schools around the world using textbooks and cases 
written with US data and starring US companies. My class had a 
sprinkling of European and Japanese students but students from 
much of the rest of the world were underrepresented, and they 
went to work for companies that were primarily domestic in 
operations.
§Today, business education, both in terms of location and material, 
has become global, with European and Asian business schools 
routinely making the top business school list, and class materials 
reflecting this trend. 
§As businesses have globalized, consumers and investors have 
had no choice but to follow, and the things we buy (from food to 
furniture) and the companies that we invest in all reflecting these 
global influences.
Aswath Damodaran 5
2. Consumers:Consumers have benefited from globalization in many 
ways, starting withmore products to choose fromand often atlower 
pricesthan in pre-globalization days. 
3. Global Institutions: While the World Bank and the IMF predate 
globalization, their power has amped up, at least in many emerging 
markets, ]and the developed world has created its own institutions 
and agreements (EU and NAFTA, to name just two) making it easier for 
businesses and individuals to operate outside their domestic borders. 
4. Financial Markets (and their centers): Over the last few decades, not 
only have more companies been able to list themselves on financial 
markets, but these markets has become more central to public policy. 
As financial markets have risen in value and importance, the cities (New 
Yo rk , L o n d o n , F ran k fu r t, Sh an g h ai, To kyo  an d  M u m b ai) wh e re  th e se  
markets are centered have gained in importance and wealth, if not in 
livability, at the expense of the rest of the world.
5. Experts: We have always looked to experts for guidance, but 
globalization has given rise to a new cadre of experts, who are 
positioned to identify what they believe are the world’s biggest 
problems and offer their solutions in forums like Davos and Aspen, with 
the world’s policy makers as their audience.
Aswath Damodaran 6
2.Consumers, on control: . From food to furniture, consumers 
lost in terms of control of where their products were made, 
and by whom. 
3.Small businesses: While there are a host of other factors that 
have also contributed to the decline of small businesses, 
globalization has been a major contributor, as smaller 
businesses now find themselves competing against 
companies who make their products thousands of miles 
away, often with very different cost structures and rules 
restricting them. Thedisappearance of the small firm effect, 
where small firms historically have earned higher returns 
than large cap companies, and globalization is a contributing 
factor.
¨8
Aswath Damodaran 9
Aswath Damodaran 10
§Coming into this century, the march of globalization seemed 
unstoppable, but the wave crested in 2008, with the financial 
market crisis. That crisis exposed the failures of the expert class, 
leading to a loss of trust that has never been recovered. 
§While the initial responses to the financial crisis were incremental, 
the perception that the world was still being run by hidden 
(global) forces, unelected and largely unaccountable to 
anyone, has continued, and I believe that it has played a significant 
role in British voters choosing Brexit, the rise of nationalist parties 
in Europe, and in the election of Donald Trump in the United States. 
§To those who are nostalgic for a return to the old times, I don't 
believe that the globalization genie can go back into the bottle, 
as it has permeated not only every aspect of business but also 
portions of our personal lives. The world that will prevail, if a trade 
war plays out, will be very different than the one that existed 
before globalization took off.
§Find a business to disrupt: The best businesses to disrupt arelarge (in 
terms of dollars spent on their products/services), inefficient in how they 
make and sell these products, and filled with dissatisfied players, where no 
one (or at least very few) is happy. 
§Target their weakestlinks: Legacy businesses have a mix of products 
and services,withprofitableproducts/services servicing less profitable, 
but still necessary products/services. Disruptors go after the former, 
leaving legacy businesses with a less profitable and viable product mix.
§Move quickly and scale up: Speed is of the essence in disruption, since 
moving quickly puts status quo companies at a disadvantage. With access 
to significant capital from venture capital, private equity and even public 
investors, disruptors can scale up quickly, unencumbered by the need to 
have well formed business models or show profits.
§Break rules, ask for permission later: A willingness to break rules and 
norms, knowing that their status quo competitors will be more averse to 
doing so, and that the rule makers and regulators will take time to 
respond.
§There is no alternative: By the timethe regulators or legal system 
catches up with the disrupters, they seem to have become so ascendant, 
and the status quo so damaged, that there is no going back to the old ways.
§The obvious winners from disruption are the disruptors, but 
since many of them scaled up with unformed business models, it is 
less in the form of profits, and more in terms of their market 
capitalizations, driven by investors dazzled by their potentials, and 
making founders, employees & investors wealthy. As these 
disrupted businesses prioritized scaling over profitability, 
consumers benefited from bargain-basement prices, sometimes 
below cost.
§The clearest loser from disruption is the status quo. As legacy 
companies melt down, in terms of profitability and value, the 
damage is felt in concentric circles, with employees who faced 
wage cuts and job losses, and investors seeing write downs in their 
holdings 
§The peripheral damage is to the regulatory structures that 
governed these businesses, as the rule breakers became 
ascendant, leaving rule makers impotent and often on the side 
lines. To the extent that these regulations and rules were designed 
to protect the environment and the public, there are side costs for 
society as well.
§For much of its history, disruption has been restricted to the business 
spaceand it has had only limited success when directed at systemic 
inefficiencies in less business-driven settings. 
§In governments, NayibBukele, in El Salvador, and Javier Milei, in 
Argentina, have not just pushed back against the norms, but have reveled 
in doing so, and they were aided by the fact that the governments were so 
broken that many of their citizenry viewed any change as improvement. 
§As we watch Elon Musk and DOGE move at hyper speed (by government 
standards), break age-old systems and push rules and laws to breaking 
point, I see the disruption playbook at play, and I am torn between two 
opposing perspectives. 
§On the one hand, it is clear the US government has been broken for decades 
and tinkering at its edges has accomplished little to reduce the 
dysfunctionalities of the system.
§On the other, though,, since breaking the US government is not the same as 
breaking companiesereare millions of vulnerable people and a break that is 
not fixed quickly could be catastrophic. There is a middle ground here, and 
unless DOGE finds it quickly, this disruption story will have lots of casualties
§There is another way in which you can reframe how the shifts in politics 
and economics will play out in valuation. I havelong argued that every 
valuation is a bridge between stories and numbers,and that to value a 
company, you have a start with a business story for the company, check to 
make sure that it ispossible, plausible and probable,and connect the story 
to valuation inputs (revenue growth, margins, reinvestment and risk). 
§Staying with that structure, the value of a company can sometimes be 
affected by its political connections or by the government acting as an 
ally or an adversary, making the government a key player in the 
company's story. 
§While that feature is not uncommon in many emerging market 
companies, when analyzing US and European companies, you had the 
luxury , historically , of keeping governments out of company stories, 
other than in the roles of tax collectors and regulators. 
§That time may well have passed, and it is entirely possible that when 
valuing companies now, you have tobring the government into the story, 
and in some cases, a company's political connections can make or 
break the story.
1. A rethinking the "electric cars are inevitable" story: For the last few 
years, it has become conventional wisdom that electric cars would 
eventually displace gas cars, and the question was more about when 
that would happen, rather than whether. In 2024, you sawdoubts creep 
into that narrative, as hybrids made a comeback, and the environmental 
consequences of having millions of electric cars on the road came into 
focus.
2. The rise of BYD as a competitor for electric cars: Since its founding, 
Tesla has been the symbol of the rise of electric cares, and legacy car 
makers have struggled to keep up with it. in 2024, BYD, the Chinese 
electric car company,sold more electric cars than Tesla for the first time 
in history, and it is clearly beating Tesla not just in China, but in most 
Asian markets and even in Europe, with lower prices and more choices.
3. The politicization of the Tesla story: There has been a backlash 
building from those who do not like Musk's political stancesand it is 
spilling over into Tesla's sales,in Europeand the United States. As long 
asMusk remains at the center of the news cycle, this is likely to 
continue, and there is the added concern, even for Tesla shareholders 
who agree with Musk's politics, that he is too distracted now to provide 
direction to the company.
§While it is easy to blame market uncertainty on tariffs and trade 
wars for the moment, the truth is that the forces that have led 
us here have been building for years, both in our political 
and economic arenas. 
§In short, even if the tariffs cease to be front page news, and the 
fears of an immediate trade war ease, the underlying forces of 
anti-globalizationthat gave rise to them will continue to play 
out in global commerce and markets. 
§For investors, that may require a shift away from the large cap 
technology companies that have been the market leaders in 
the last two decades back to smaller cap companies with a 
more domestic focus.
