Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Teslastory2016.pdf

TESLA:	IT’S	A	STORY	STOCK,	BUT	
WHAT	THE	(YOUR)	STORY?
The	power	of	the	story
2
The	Resilient	Stock
Bad news 1:  Delivery shortfalls
Bad news 2: Fatality of driver using Tesla Auto Pilot
Bad news 3: Tesla buys Solar City
3
Value:	Story	+	Numbers
4
A	Story	Stock
5
The	Story	Stock	Effect
¨ Story	changes	and	information:	it	is	shifts	in	the	story	
that	cause	price	and	value	changes.	An	earnings	report	
that	beats	expectations	(in	either	direction)	or	a	news	
story	of	significance	(good	or	bad)	may	not	have	any	
effect	on	either	(value	or	price)	if	it	does	not	change	the	
story.	
¨ Wider	disagreements:	When	a	company’s	value	is	driven	
primarily	by	numbers,	there	is	less	room	for	
disagreement.	In	contrast,	with	a	story	stock,	investor	
stories	can	span	a	much	wider	spectrum,	leading	to	a	
much	bigger	range	in	values,	as	illustrated	with	Uber	in	
this	post.
6
The	Tesla	Story:	The	Choices
10
Tesla:	What	if?
11
Elon	Musk:	The	X	Factor
¨ It	is	almost	impossible	to	separate	Tesla,	the	company,	from	
Elon	Musk,	its	founder .	What	you	believe	about	one	will	drive	
what	you	believe	about	the	other .
¨ If	you	believe	that	Musk	is	a	visionary,	capable	of	seeing	the	
world	as	it	will	be	rather	than	as	it	is,	and	a	man	who	has	the	
brilliance	and	drive	to	deliver	on	that	vision,	you	will	find	
Tesla	to	be	a	buy.
¨ If	you	believe	instead	that	he	is	a	showman	who	promises	far	
more	than	he	can	deliver,	Tesla	is	a	sell.
¨ There	is	an	intermediate	position,	where	you	belive that	
Musk	is	a	flawed	visionary,	with	the	flaws	being	lack	of	focus,	
a	thin	skin	and	a	disinterest	in	the	nitty	gritty	of	operations.	
Tesla	can	be	a	buy,	but	only	at	the	right	price,	and	if	Musk	can	
find	an	operating	partner .
12
Tesla:	Investment	Plays
1. The	Momentum	Play:	You	can	surf	the	stock,	
buying	it	as	the	story	gets	bigger	and	stronger	and	
getting	out	as	the	story	develops	weakness.
2. The	Short	Bet:	If	you	believe	that	Musk’s	flaws	will	
overwhelm	his	strengths,	you	can	sell	short	and	
wait	for	the	market	to	come	around	to	your	point	
of	view.
3. The	Long	Bet:	If	you	believe	that	Musk’s	strengths	
are	much	greater	than	his	weaknesses,	you	can	buy	
and	hold,	on	the	assumption	that	he	will	deliver	on	
his	promise.
