Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2025.pdf

Change is the only constant!
§We started 2024 with the consensus wisdom that rates would 
dropduring the year, driven by rate cuts from the Fed. 
§The Fed did keep its end of the bargain, cutting the Fed Funds 
rate three times during the course ofthe year, but the bond 
markets did not stick with the script, and market interest rates 
roseduring the course ofthe year, revealing yet again the 
delusions behind "the Fed sets rates" argument. 
§In this post, I will begin by looking at movements in treasury 
rates, across maturities, during 2024, and the resultant shifts 
in yield curves. I will follow up by examining changes in 
corporate bond rates, across the default ratings spectrum, 
trying to get a measure of how the price of risk in bond 
markets changed during 2024.
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
§Over the last two decades, for better or worse, we (as 
investors, consumers and observers) have come to accept as a 
truism the notion that central banks set interest rates. 
§Thus, the answer to not only to questions about past interest 
rate movements (the low rates between 2008 and 2021, the 
spike in rates in 2022) but also to where interest rates will go in 
the future has been to look to central banking smoke signals. 
§In this section, I will argue that the interest rates ultimately are 
driven by macro fundamentals, and that the power of central 
banks comes from preferential access to data about these 
fundamentals and their capacity to alter those fundamentals 
(in good and bad ways).
Aswath Damodaran 6
§If you set the abstractions aside, and remove default risk from 
consideration (because the borrower is default-free), a riskfree interest 
rate in nominal terms can be viewed as the sum of the expected inflation 
rate and an expected real interest rate:
Nominal interest rate = Expected inflation + Expected real interest rate
1. Expected inflation: I use the current year's inflation rate as a proxy for 
expected inflation. Clearly, this is simplistic, since you can have unusual 
events during a year that cause inflation in that year to spike. (In an 
alternate calculation, I use an average inflation rate over the last ten 
years as the expected inflation rate._
2. Expected real interest rate: In the last two decades, we have been able 
to observe a real interest rate, at least in the US, using inflation-
protected treasury bonds(TIPs). Since I am trying to estimate an 
intrinsic real interest rate, I use the growth rate in real GDP as my proxy 
for the real interest rate. That is clearly a stretch when it comes to year-
to-year movements, but in the long term, the two should converge.
Aswath Damodaran 7
¨Aswath Damodaran ¨9
Aswath Damodaran 10
Aswath Damodaran 11
§Information: It is true that the Fed collects substantial data on 
consumer and business behavior that it can use to make more 
reasoned judgments about where inflation and real growth are 
headed than the rest of the market, and its actions often are 
viewed as a signal of that information
§Central bank credibility: Implicit in the signaling argument is 
the belief that the central bank is serious in its intent to keep 
inflation in check, and that is has enough independence from 
the government to be able to act accordingly. 
§Interest rate level:If the primary mechanism for central banks 
signaling intent remains the Fed Funds rate (or its equivalent in 
other markets), with rate rises indicating that the 
economy/inflation is overheating and rate cuts suggesting the 
opposite, there is an inherent problem that central banks face if 
interest rates fall towards zero.
§Shouldyou forecast? It is unclear to me what any expert, no 
matter how credentialed, can bring to the table that gives them an 
edge in my forecasting. In mayvaluations, this plays out in an 
assumption where I do not try to second guess the bond market, 
and replace current treasury bond rates with fanciful estimates of 
normalized or forecasted rates
§Ifyoudoforecast rates..:Any forecast of interest rates has be
backed up by a story about changing inflation or real growth.
§Higher interest rates driven by higher inflation will generally have 
neutral effects on value, for companies with pricing power, and negative 
effects for companies that do not. 
§Higher interest rates precipitated by stronger real growth is more likely 
to be neutral for the market, since higher earnings (from the stronger 
economy) can offset the higher rates. 
§The most emptyforecasts of interest rates are the ones where 
the forecaster's only reason for predicting higher or lower rates is 
central banks, and I am afraid that the discussion of interest rates 
has become vacuous over the last two decades, as the delusion 
that the Fed sets interest rates becomes deeply engrained.
§The corporate bond market gets less attention that the treasury 
bond market, partly because rates in that market are very much 
driven by what happens in the treasury market. 
§Last year, as the treasury bond rate rose from 3.88% to 4.58%, it 
should come as no surprise that corporate bond rates rose as 
well, but there isinformation in the rate differences between 
the two markets. 
§That rate difference, of course, is the default spread, and it will 
vary across different corporate bonds, based almost entirely on 
perceived default risk.
Default spread = Corporate bond rate -Treasury bond rate on 
bond of equalmaturity
§I must confess that I find the bond market far less interesting, 
since so much of the focus is on the downside, and while I am 
glad that there are other people who care about that, I prefer to 
inhabit a more upbeat space. 
§That said, though, I dabble in bond markets because what 
happens in those markets, unlike what happens in Las Vegas, 
does not stay there. 
§Thespillover effects into equity markets can be substantial, 
and in some cases, devastating. In my posts looking back at 
2022, I noted how a record bad year for bond markets, as both 
treasury and corporate bonds took a beating for the ages, very 
quickly found its ways into stocks, dragging the market down.
