Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate1for2021.pdf

A LOOK BACK AT A MOST 
FORGETTABLE YEAR: MY 
JANUARY 2021 DATA UPDATE
Aswath Damodaran
2
An Annual Ritual
¨I spent the first week of 2021 in the same way that I have 
spent the first week of every year since 1995, collecting data 
on publicly traded companies and analyzing how they 
navigated the cross currents of the prior year, both in 
operating and market value terms.
¨I knew that this year would be more challenging than most 
other years, for two reasons. 
¤The first was that the shut down of the global economy, that was 
initiated by the spreading of COVID early last year, had lasting and 
divergent effects on the operations of companies in different sectors, 
and across the world. 
¤The second was that, starting mid-year in 2020, markets and the real 
economy moved in different directions, with the former rising on the 
expectations a post-virus future, and the latter languishing, as most of 
the world continued to operate with significant constraints.
3
A Skeptical Look at Big Data
1. If everyone has it, no one does: I believe that if 
everyone has a resource or easy access to that 
resource, it is difficult to make money off that resource. 
Applying that concept to data, the most valuable data 
is unique and exclusively available to its owner, and the 
further away you get from exclusivity, the less valuable 
data becomes.
2. Data is not dollars:Data is valuable only if it can be 
converted into a product or service, or improvements 
thereof, allowing a company to capture higher earnings 
and cash flows from those actions. Data that is 
interesting but that cannot be easily monetized 
through products or services is not as valuable.
4
My motivation
1. Gain perspective: One of the challenges of being a business or an investor is 
developing and maintaining perspective, i.e., a big picture view of comprises normal, 
high or low. 
2. Clear tunnel vision: Investors are creatures of habit, staying in their preferred 
markets, and often within those markets, in their favored sectors. Equity research 
analysts are even more focused on handfuls of companies in their assigned 
industries. So what? By focusing so much attention on a small subset of companies, 
you risk developing tunnel vision.
3. Expose BS: I know that everyone is entitled to their opinions, but they are not 
entitled to their facts. I am tired of market experts and analysts who make 
assertions, often based upon anecdotal evidence and often plainly untrue, to 
advance a thesis or agenda. The big questions aboutleverage, taxes and profitability 
beg to be addressed with data, not emotions or opinions. 
4. Challenge conventional wisdom: Investing has always had rules of thumb on how and 
when to invest, ranging from using historical PE or CAPE ratios to decide if markets 
are over valued, to simplistic rules (for individual stocks. It is very likely that these 
rules of thumb were developed from data and observation, but at a very different 
point in time, but markets and companies have moved on, and they no longer work.
5
DataandBias
¨I also want to dispense with the notion that data is objective
and that numbers-focused people have no bias. 
¤If you have a bias or a preconception, it is amazing how quickly you can 
bend the data to reflect that bias or preconception. 
¤Thestrongeryourpreconceptions,themoreyouwilllookfordata that 
back them up.
¨As an exercise, take a lookat myupdated industry averages 
for taxespaid by US companies in 2021. From past 
experience, I predict that numbers in this table will be quoted 
by journalists, economists and even politicians during the 
year, but the tax rate measure (since I report several different 
measures) that they quote will reflect their biases. Put simply, 
if you find my data quoted elsewhere, I would suggestthat 
you visit the source and make your own judgments.
6
The Sample
¨The focus in markets is often on subsets of firms, usually with good 
reason. 
¤In general, larger firms (especially in market value terms) get more 
attention that smaller ones, because their movements in their value are 
more consequential for more investors.
¤Publicly traded firms generally garner more attention than privately 
owned businesses, partly because they are larger, but also because there 
are is more information disclosed and investment opportunity with the 
former. 
¤Companies in developed and more liquid markets are in the 
spotlight more than their counterparts in emerging markets. That said, 
focusing on just large or developed market companies can create biased 
samples and skew assessments about market and operating performance.
¨It is to avoid this that I started by looking at all publicly traded 
companies that were traded on January 1, 2021, and arrived at a 
sample of 46,579 firms, spread across 136 countries.
7
Sample: Geography
8
Ssmple: Sector Breakdown
9
Sample: Company Age
10
Data: General Observations
¨ Currency: One of the challenges of dealing with a global sample is that you are working with 
accounting and market numbers quoted in multiple currencies. I will employ two techniques. 
¤ First, all value numbers (like market capitalization, debt or revenues) that I aggregateor average will be 
converted into US dollars to ensure currency consistency. 
¤ Second, most of the numbers that I report will be ratios, where the currencies are no longer an issue.
¨ Missing Data: Information disclosure requirements vary across the world, and there are some data 
items that are available for some companies or some markets, and not for others. Rather than 
remove all firms with missing data, which will eliminate a large portion of my sample, I keep the 
firms in the sample and report only the variable/metric that is affected by the missing item as 
"NA".
¨ Accounting Differences: In addition to disclosure differences, there are also accounting differences 
in revenue recognition, expensing rules, depreciation methods and other details across markets. I 
work with the publicly available data, recognizing that net income for a Japanese company may be 
measured differently than earnings for an Indian company, and accept that this may skew the 
results. 
¨ Source Reliability and Errors: I obtain my raw data from S&P , Bloomberg and others, and while they  
obtain the data from computerized databases in different markets that collect public filings and at 
every stage in this process, there is the possibility of errors. I do run some simple error checks to 
eliminate obvious mistakes, but I am sure that there are others that I miss. My defense is that, 
unless the mistake is on a very large scale, the impact it has on my group statistics is small, simply 
because of my sample size. In addition, there is also the possibility of accounting fraud in some 
companies, and there is little or nothing that can be done about them.
11
Data: Macro
¨ US Equity Risk Premiums: The equity risk premium is the price of risk in equity markets. In my view, 
it is the most comprehensive measure (much more so than PE ratios or other pricing multiples) of 
how stocks are being priced, with a higher (lower) equity risk premium correlating with lower 
(higher) stock prices. 
¤ The conventional approach to measuring this premium is looking at past returns on stocks and treasuries (or 
something close to riskfree) and measuring the difference in historical returns and I report the updated 
levels (through 2020) for historical premiums for stocks over treasuries in this dataset. 
¤ I have argued that this is both backward looking and static, andhave computed and reported a forward-
looking and dynamic equity risk premium, based upon current stock price levels and expected future cash 
flows; you can find both the current level and past values in this dataset.
¨ Country Risk Premiums: In a world where both investing and business is globalized, we need equity 
risk premiums for markets around the world, not only to value companies listed in those markets, 
but also to value companies that have operations in those countries. 
¨ Bond Default Spreads: The bond default spread is the price of risk in corporate bond (lending) 
markets, and as with the equity risk premium, higher (lower) spreads go with lower (higher) 
corporate bond prices. In the same dataset where I compute historical equity risk premiums, I 
report historical returns on corporate bonds in two ratings classes (Moody’s Aaaand Baa ratings). I 
also report estimates of the default spreads based upon current yields on bonds in different ratings 
classes and the current riskfreerate.
12
Data: Micro Methods 
¨ Industry: Data can be consolidated by geography, industry or company size, and I use all three, to some extent or the other . 
My primary consolidation is by industry and I break down my sample of 46,579 firms into 94 industry groupings. 
¨ Geography: There is one dataset where I look at companies broken down by country, and I report a number ofdifferent 
statistics for 136 countries. I would caution you to take this data with a grain of salt, since there are only a handful of listings 
in some country. I do report much more data for a broader geographical classification, where I classify firms into six broad 
geographical groupings: Note that while emerging markets is a very large and diverse group, I do report statistics for India 
and China, two of the bigger components, separately.
¨ Averaging: I hope it does not sound patronizing, but I want to explain how I compute group values (averages), because it is 
not as obvious as it sounds. For instance, you could compute the PE ratio for each company in the group and take a simple 
average, but that approach has two problems. First, it weights small firms as much as large firms, and outliers can cause the
average to take on outlandish values. Second, it eliminates firms that have negative earnings (and thus have no PE ratios) 
from the sample, potentially creating biased samples. 
¤ Using a weighted average PE ratio can counter the first problem and using a median can reduce the outlier effect, but neither
approach can deal with the second problem (of sample bias). 
¤ For most of my industry averaging, I use an aggregation approach, where I compute ratios using aggregated values; to compute 
the PE ratio for chemical companies, I add up the market capitalizations of all chemical companies and divide that number by the
aggregate net income of all chemical companies (including money losers). This ensures that (a) all companies are counted, (b)the 
computed number is weighted since larger companies contribute more to the aggregate and (c) the risk of outliers is reduced, 
since it is less likely to occur in a large sample than for an individual firm.
¨ Current data: The focus of this data update is to report on how companies did in 2020, rather than to provide historical 
time series. Since I am updating the data in early January, and the complete numbers for 2020 will not be available until 
March or April at the latest, I will be using the trailing twelve-month numbers for operating variables (like revenues and 
operating income) to compute ratios. For most companies, that will effectively be the twelve months through September 
30, 2020, that will be captured in the data.
13
Data: Micro Variables
Risk Measures
1. Beta
2. Standard deviation in stock 
price
3. Standard deviation in 
operating income
4. High-Low Price Risk Measure
Cost of Funding
1. Cost of Equity
2. Cost of Debt
3. Cost of Capital
Pricing Multiples
1. PE &PEG
2. Price to Book
3. EV/EBIT and EV/EBITDA
4. EV/Sales and Price/Sales
Profitability
1. Net Profit Margin
2. Operating Margin
3. EBITDA, EBIT and EBITDAR&D 
Margins
Financial Leverage
1. D/E ratio & Debt/Capital (book 
& market)
2. Debt/EBITDA
3. Interest Coverage Ratios
4. Accounting lease debt vs my 
estimates
Cash Flow Add-ons
1. Cap Ex & Net Cap Ex
2. Non-cash Working Capital as % 
of Revenue
3. Sales/Invested Capital
4. COVID effects on market cap 
and earnings
Returns
1. Return on Equity
2. Return on Invested Capital
3. ROE –Cost of Equity
4. ROIC –Cost of Capital
Dividend Policy
1. Dividend Payout & Yield
2. Dividends/FCFE & (Dividends + 
Buybacks)/ FCFE
Risk Premiums
1. Equity Risk Premiums
2. Bond Default Spreads
14
Data:COVID effects
¨ COVID effects: To capture how COVID has played out in different sectors and geographies, I 
computed the changes in aggregate market capitalization during 2020 broken down by sub periods 
(1/1/20 -2/14, 2/14-3/20, 3/20 -9/1 and 9/1 -12/31/20), reflecting the ups and downs in the 
overall market. I also looked at the change in revenues and operating income over the last twelve 
months (October 2019 -September 2020) compared to revenues in the year prior (October 2018 -
September 2019). 
¨ Operating metrics: My computations for operating margins and accounting returns (returns on 
equity and capital) reflect the COVID effect on earnings in 2020, and not surprisingly, you will see 
that their values are much lower for the most damaged sectors (restaurants, airlines) than in prior 
years. If you are comparing across companies in these sectors, that may not be an issue, but if you 
are valuing companies and want to find a target value for margins or accounting returns, you will 
be better served using my archived values for these variables from 2019.
¨ Pricing metrics: I compute and report a range of pricing multiples from PE ratios to Enterprise 
Value (EV) to sales ratios, but as with the operating metrics, COVID has left its imprint on the 
numbers this year . As market capitalizations have quickly retraced their losses, but operating 
variables have not, the multiples reflect that disconnect. They are either not meaningful in some 
sectors, which are reporting aggregated losses, or at elevated levels in others (where the collective 
earnings are down significantly, but market values are not). Again, while this should not be an issue 
with cross company comparisons, there are two cautionary notes. The first is that investors who 
come in with strong preconceptions of what comprises cheap or expensive in pricing ratio terms or 
historic norms will find that everything looks exorbitantly priced. The other is that you will lose 
large segments of your peer groups if you stick with multiples like PE ratios for comparisons, since 
so many companies will be money losing.
15
Data Access and Use
¨ Data access:The data is accessible on my website, if you click on data. The data for 2020 is 
available under current data, and data from previous years under archived data. If you do click on 
current data, you will see the data classified into groupings based upon how I see the world 
(corporate governance, risk, investment returns, debt, dividends and pricing). You can see the data 
online for US companies by clicking on the links next to the data item, but I would strongly 
recommend that you download the excel spreadsheets that contain the data instead. Not only will 
this let you access data for other geographical regions, but each excel spreadsheet includes 
descriptions of the variables reported in that dataset and many include short YouTube videos 
explaining the data.
¨ Data Use:I know that those who download my data use it in many different contexts. If you use it 
at their jobs as corporate finance or equity analysts, I am glad to take some of that burden off you, 
and I hope that you find more enjoyable uses for the time you save. If you use my data to buttress 
an argument or debunk someone else’s, I wish you the best, as long asyou don’t make it personal. 
If you use is it to back your case in legal settings, go ahead, but please do not involve me formally. I 
believe that courts are a graveyard for good valuation practices and while I do not begrudge you, I 
have no interest in playing that game.
¨ Data Questions: If you have a question about how a variable is computed, please check the 
website first, since the question has probably been answered already, but if you cannot find that 
answer, you know how to find me, and I will try to address your issues. As I mentioned earlier, the 
excel spreadsheets that contain the data include the descriptions of how I compute the variables.
16
Useandpassiton…
Aswath Damodaran
16
¨I know that the numbers (in terms of companies and variables) makes this 
data update sound like daunting work, but I will make a confession. I 
enjoy the process, even including the messy details, and it prepares me 
for the year to come. In fact, the time that this aggregated data saves me 
through the year, when I value and analyze companies, represents a huge 
multiple of the time I spend putting it together. 
¨Put simply, if you are tempted to anoint me for sainthood for sharing my 
data, I would do it anyway and sharing it costs nothing, while potentially 
benefiting you.
¨In sum, I hope you find the data that I provide useful, and if you do, you 
do not have to thank me or even acknowledge me as the source. In the 
next month, I will add about a dozen posts on what I see in the data, but I 
will do so with the recognition that change is the only constant and that 
assuming that things always revert backto historic norms is not an 
investment philosophy.
17
The Caveats
Aswath Damodaran
17
¨Numbers ≠ Facts: While the numbers, once reported, look precise, they 
are not facts but opinions. Thus, when you look at the debt ratios that I 
report for a sector, it is worth emphasizing that I have capitalized lease 
commitments and added them to all interest bearing debt (short and long 
term) to arrive at total debt, yielding a different number that what you 
may see on a different service. I have tried to be as transparent as I can in 
making my estimates but they remain estimates.
¨Past is not always prologue: I believe that knowing history is useful in 
investing, but trusting it to repeat itself is dangerous.
¨Just because everyone does it does not make it right: As you look at the 
datasets, you will see patterns in investment, financing and dividend 
policy in sectors. While there are often good reasons for these 
differences, there are also bad ones, with inertial on top of that list. The 
reality is that there are established corporate finance policies in many 
sectors that no longer make sense, because the sectors have changed 
fundamentally over time.
