Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/SpaceXIPO.pdf

I’m sorry, Dave. I’m afraid I can’t do that!
Hal in 2001: A Space Odyssey
2
§The SpaceX IPO is drawing attention for three reasons:
§The first is that in a market where there are many young companies 
all trying to claim to be futuristic in their offerings, SpaceX clearly 
stands out as the real thing, with rockets, satellites and AI all 
residing under its corporate umbrella. 
§The second is its founder (Elon Musk) is the richest person in 
the world, and has upended one legacy business (autos), bought a 
social media company as a soapbox and made his presence felton 
the the political stage. 
§Third, if the private market pricing feeds into the public offering, 
SpaceX could very well become the most valuable IPO of all 
time, joining the rarefied list of trillion-dollar companies, on listing. 
§That said, I may be getting a little ahead of the game here, 
because SpaceX has not filed a public prospectus yet, and 
little is known about its financials other that drabs of 
information that have been leaked to the press.
3
§At its founding in 2002, Musk stated the goals for SpaceX as 
reducing the costs of space transportation and travel to Mars,
butwas viewed as having little chance of success by the space 
establishment, composed then of government agencies (NASA) 
and a few defense firms (Boeing and Northrop Grumman). 
§SpaceX applied the lessons of modular engineering from the 
software business and over the next few years, it launched Falcon 
1, its first space launch vehicle in September 2008. That successful 
launch led to a NASA contract for $1.6 billion and rescued the 
company from near bankruptcy. In subsequent years, SpaceX 
developed Falcon 9, a reusable and heavier vehicle, and became 
the first commercial entity to deliver cargo to the International 
Space Station. 
§In 2013, SpaceX launched its first mission for a private 
customer and quickly secured a dominant market share of 
commercial launch contract market.
4
§Along the way, the company added to its business mix, first with 
The Boring Company, acompany that specialized in building 
tunnels that could be used to transport people, in 2017, before 
spinning it off as a separate entity.
§More significantly, in 2019, the company also launched sixty 
Starlink satellites, with the end game of offering 
internetservices to customers, especially in areas where 
conventional internet service was limited. That endeavor has 
now grown to include thousands of satellites and had more than 
ten million active subscribers spread across the world, at 
the end of 2025. 
§In February 2026, the company developed its third business 
arm, with its acquisition of xAI, the parent to Grok, the Musk-
developed competitor in the LLM space.
5
§SpaceX had a slow start financially, as its initial years were 
spent developing the Falcon 1 rocket, and even after that 
development, the dependence on the US government and 
commercial satellite launchers resulted in revenues growing much 
more slowly than they did at Tesla, Musk's other high-profile 
creation. 
§Even as late as 2021, the company reported revenues of just 
over $2 billion, almost entirely from its launch business, but 
Starlink's subscriber based model has allowed revenues to 
increase more than five-fold since, reaching an estimated 
$15.5 billion in 2025, with just under 30% coming from the launch 
business ($4.1 billion) about the rest from Starlink subscriptions 
($11.4 billion); xAI, which was acquired in 2026, had 
subscription revenues of roughly $100 million in 2025.
§Without full financials to back up the statement, it is estimated that 
SpaceX generated an EBITDA of $8 billion in 2025, though with 
depreciation and other expenses incorporated, it is not clear how 
much profits the company delivered (as operating or net profit).
6
§Elon Musk used a portion of his winnings ($180 million) from 
his PayPal exit as seed money ($100 million) for founding 
SpaceX, but the company required multiple rounds of venture 
capital to fund its infrastructure needs. 
§The first venture capital round of about $12 million was in 2002, but 
there have at least thirty additional infusions amounting to 
more than $12 billion. 
§While SpaceX counts big name VCs in its investing roster 
(Founders Fund, Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia), it has also 
seen increasing investments from public equity investors such as 
Fidelity and public tech companies such as Google. 
§While these venture capital investments have diluted Musk's 
ownership over the years, he continues to own about 42% of the 
equity in the company , and with differential voting rights, 
close to 80% of the total voting rights in the company.
7
§It is true that intrinsic valuation, at least in its discounted cash 
flow avatar, is much easier at companies that have many years 
of historical data and peer groups of companies in the same 
business. 
§If you use that framework, it is easy to see why so many view 
SpaceX as a company that cannot be valued, given that you 
don’t even have a single year of financial statements (let alone 
a long history) and there are no truly comparable companies.
§That said, if you define intrinsic value as the value of a business 
based upon its capacity to generate cash flows in the future, there 
is nothing in that definition that requires either historical data 
or peer group information. 
§I have long argued that you can estimate the value of young 
companies with minimal data, as long asyou build a 
valuation around a business narrative, and accept that this 
valuation will change, as circumstances do. With SpaceX, I will 
get a chance to put this argument into practice.
8
§Thelaunch business, which is where SpaceX was born, is still 
its most identifiable business, and frames the company's story 
not just as a futuristic company, but one that was able to 
overcome some of the most significant technological 
challenges of any start up and not just survive but thrive. 
§SpaceX has established such a robust andlong-standing cost 
advantageover its competitors in the business, stemming from 
its existing infrastructure investments and reusable rocket 
technology , and had a market share in excess of80% of the 
market in 2025. 
§Its competition will come from some private and 
government-funded players, who may be able to capture 
market share, notwithstanding their higher costs, due to 
security and nationalistic concerns.
9
§The space launch market is estimated to be about $30 billion in 
2026 and is expected to grow to $100 billion in 2036, as 
governments and private business demand increases. 
§SpaceX will continue to dominate the business, albeit with a 
slightly less dominant market share (70%, down from >80% in 
2025) of the total market and as costs decrease with scale, 
operating margins will increase over time to 40%.
§I am being conservative in my estimates, insofar as I am 
ignoring space travel and expanded business opportunities in 
space, but I don't think, at the moment, that either offers a 
viable path to augmenting revenues).
10
§At the end of 2025, Starlink had close to 10,000 satellites in space, 
about two thirds of the entire global count, and is adding to that 
number every month.  That has allowed it to double its 
subscriber numbers to just over 10 million, and while Amazon's 
acquisition of GlobalStarhas brought a potential competitor into 
the mix, GlobalStarhas a fraction of the satellites that Starlink does. 
§The challenge for any satellite-based internet service provider is 
that notwithstanding the use of low-earth orbit (LEO) satellites to 
improve service, it lags more conventional internet technology 
(fiber optic and cable) in much of the world, leaving it (at least 
for the moment) with a niche market of rural areas, countries with 
damaged or no infrastructure and airplane/train travelers. 
§Thus, while the total internet service market is estimated to be 
close to a trillion and a half dollars globally, in 2025, satellite-
based service accounted for about 1% in 2025, accounting for 
just over $12 billion in revenues, with StarLinkhaving a dominant 
market share.
11
§The satellite internet services market will continue to 
grow, as technology improves service quality and the 
airline/public transit demand for better wifigrows, from 
$15 billion to $160 billion (from less than 1% to 10% ofof the 
internet service market) over time. 
§Starlink will see more competitors, but its lead in satellites 
and capacity to use its launch business to get more into 
space, will give it a substantial advantageand a market 
share of 75% of the overall market). 
§The cost of customer acquisition will ease over time, as 
business customers become a larger portion of the business, 
and operating margins will approach 60% in steady state, as 
the market consolidates.
12
§Grok lags the other LLMs in terms of revenues and reach. In terms of 
usage, Anthropic (with Claude), OpenAI (with ChatGPT) and Google (with 
Gemini) are not only more widely used than Grok, but are further along in 
converting them into businesses, with subscription models. 
§While Grok has been bundled into the X Premium subscriptions, and 
earned $80 million in revenues in 2025, it seems to be focusing more on 
individual consumers than businesses.
§This is the most diffuse and volatile of the three markets, in terms of 
potential market, since the potential market can run from the tens of 
billions (if they remain subscription-based) to hundreds of billions or even 
trillions (if they become replacements for human labor or massive 
productivity boosters). 
§It is entirely possible that Grok may concede the larger and more 
competitive business space to Claude and ChatGPT and focus instead 
on consumer subscriptions, giving it a smaller market, but one with less 
competition. 
§The recent acquisition of Cursor, an AI company focused on coding 
applications suggests that Grokhasnot thrown in the towel on business 
application.
13
§The LLM market will continue to grow, but more in business 
applications than in consumer apps. 
§In my storyline, xAIwill target primarily consumer 
subscription revenuesand use in niche business applications, 
such as coding, leaving the more messywhite-collar 
applications to its competitors. 
§That will give it a smaller market ($80 billion in 2036), but 
one with less competition and higher margins (50% operating 
margin), and less reinvestment as it avoids going head-to-head 
with Anthropic, OpenAI and Google for business use.
14
§It is undeniable that SpaceX, as a lead player in three fast-
growing and volatile businesses, may be able to use its 
infrastructure toexpand each of thesebusinessesalong the 
way. 
§The space launch business, which has generally focused on 
delivering commercial or government loads and satellites into 
outer space may very well become a springboard for space 
travel, for leisure, research or business.
§With its satellite broadband offerings, the possibility exists that the 
technology and the reach will improve to a point where they 
can compete with fiber-optic and cable broadband offerings, 
perhaps at much lower cost. 
§With xAI, the possibility that Grok finds a way to outflank its LLM 
rivals, including Claude, Gemini and ChatGPT,in terms of 
business offerings may be low, but it does exist. In truth, these are 
all options that may not be viable at the moment, but if they become 
viable, could add immense value.
15
17
§With my story and inputs, the value that I derive is $1.2 trillion, 
about 10% below the private market pricing and about a third 
below the expected IPO pricing, but still astonishingly high for a 
company with $15.5 billion in revenues in the most recent year, and 
a host of question marks about corporate governance. 
§Note that in this iteration, I have ignored cash and debt, since I do 
not have the company's financial statements, but it is unlikely that 
either will have much of an impact on the value of equity for a 
company with this high a value for its operating assets.
§As you can see, the SpaceX story not only has many moving parts, 
but is fraught with uncertainty, and without full financials, it does 
not have a good starting point. 
§As the initial public offering is fleshed out, we will have access to 
the full financial statements of the company, including its cash 
holdings and indebtedness, as well as the capital invested in the 
firm by venture capitalists over its lifetime.
18
§Uncertaintyisa feature, not a bug, and valuing SpaceX 
requires becoming comfortable with its presence.
§Iamuncertainabout every input in the SpaceX valuation, but
§Iamlessuncertainaboutsomeestimates(revenues and margins 
from the launchandinternet service businesses) than I am about 
others (revenues and margins in the LLM and expansion 
businesses)
§If you are wondering why this uncertainty is not showing up in a 
higher cost of capital, it is because the risk is specific to the 
company and cuts in both directions (upside and downside)
§If there are outliers, they are far more likely to be on the upside than 
thedownside
§Ratherthanhidefromtheuncertainty,Iwillembraceit,and
makemybestjudgmentsonhow uncertain in feel in a 
simulation.
20
§In an initial public offering, companies are priced, not 
valued, by bankers (for the offering price), by investors (as 
the stock starts trading) and by observers to make judgments 
(on whether it over or underpriced).
§Thus, you can make the argument that the valuation, with 
all ofits moving parts, is irrelevant, and that you should 
price SpaceX, not value it, if your intent is to trade on the IPO.
§That is a legitimate critique, but the argument that pricing 
somehow dispenses with the need to make assumptions 
about market size and profitability or does not have the 
same uncertainties is not.
21
22
23
§The bigger challenge in pricing SpaceX will bein the second step, 
where you have tofind comparable firms (or a peer group) to 
base your pricing on. 
§On the space launch business, using publicly traded aerospace and 
defense companies like Boeing and Northrop Grumman is a non-starter, 
because they are in low growth, lower-margin businesses than SpaceX. 
Palantir may seem like a logical fallback, and while it may have 
similar growth potential, it is a data/software company that does 
not have the infrastructure. 
§On the internet service business again, there are conventional telecom 
firms like V erizon and T-Mobile, but the economics of their offerings 
are different, and they are not growth companies. 
§Finally, on xAI, there are other LLMs, almost all of which are private 
companies now, and while you can use the pricing from most 
recent VC rounds, you are on shaky grounds. 
§Even if you forged ahead with a peer group of high-growth, tech 
companies, your pricing will almost certainly have to revolved 
around revenues, rather than profits, and based upon very 
small samples.
24
25
§The one part of pricing that you will almost certainly see is the 
story telling, especially with analysts who are locked into 
finding SpaceX to be a buy, with the pricing more of an ex-post 
rationalization than aanalytical tool. 
§No matter what peer group you pick, SpaceX will be priced 
higher than comparable firms, and to back the argument that it 
is still a good investment, you will hear stories of its large 
potential market, significant competitive advantages and 
profitability. 
§All ofthese stories have a kernel of truth to them, but they are 
empty if they remain stories. To truly control for differences in 
growth and margins, you have toestimate how much the market 
is paying for each.
26
§SpaceX is Musk's most impressive contribution, an engineering marvel 
that has shown its naysayers, which included almost every luminary 
in the space community , to be wrong. 
§As with all of Musk's creations, SpaceX will be a shape shifting entity, 
frustrating investors who expect companies to follow linear paths in the 
corporate life cycle, going from young growth to maturity, instead shifting 
from one narrative to another, often with no advance warning.
§When I bought Tesla in 2019, after its stock had taken a beating, I 
described the company as a corporate teenager, and with Musk in full 
control, SpaceX is likely to follow the same meandering path. 
§That makes it a difficult company to buy , but it makes it an even more 
dangerous company to sell short, as Tesla short sellers have discovered in the 
last two decades. 
§In a business world, where so many companies to be unique and one-of-a-
kind, SpaceX qualifies, and while I would not be interested in buying at the 
rumored IPO pricing of $1.75 trillion, it is perhaps one big correction away from 
being fairly pricedor even cheap. If that happens, I will be a buyer,  butwill do so 
with the recognition that this company comes packaged with a founder who is 
both uniquely gifted and flawed, and complaining about the parts of Musk you do 
not like, while enjoying the fruits of the aspects that you do, is unfair.
