Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate6for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 6: 
PROFITS, GROWTH AND VALUE
Aswath Damodaran
2
Measuring financial success
¨ Many companies measure success using lower 
thresholds, with some arguing that making money 
(having positive profits) is good enough and others 
positing that being more profitable than competitors 
in the same business makes you a good company. 
¨ In this post, I will look at all three measures of 
success, starting with the minimal (making money), 
moving on to relative judgments (and how best to 
compare profitability across companies of different 
scales) and ending with the most rigorous one of 
value generation.
3
1. Profit Measures
4
Through whose eyes?
5
1. The Minimalist Test
6
2. Profit Margins – A Relative Test
7
Global Margins
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
3. The Value Test
¨ As a business, making money is easier than creating 
value, since to create value, you have to not just 
make money, but more money than you could have 
if you had invested your capital elsewhere.
¤ Profits: How much do you expect to generate as profits and 
cash flows from existing projects?
¤ Invested Capital: How much capital is invested in existing 
assets/projects?
¤ Opportunity Cost: Given the risk of the investment, what 
return do you need to make to break even?
9
In a perfect world, here is what youwould
do..
¨ For profits: You would use expected earnings and cash 
flows in future years to measure profits to both equity 
investors and the business.
¨ For invested capital: You would have an inflation-
adjusted estimate of how much capital is invested in 
existing assets or equity.
¨ For hurdle rates: You would have costs of equity and 
capital that reflected
¤ The mix of businesses that a firm operates in
¤ The current debt to equity ratio for the firm, with all financial 
commitments treated as debt
¤ The mix of countries that the firm does business in
10
Different Perspectives
11
Return on Equity
12
Cost of Equity
13
Measuring Excess Returns: Estimation 
Choices for Return on Capital
14
Measuring Excess Returns: Estimation 
Choices for Cost of Capital
15
And the results
16
Corporate Finance Implications
¨ Growth is a mixed bag: In 60% of companies, it looks 
like it destroys value, does not add to it.
¨ Good and Bad companies: There are lots of bad 
companies, if bad is defined as not making your 
hurdle rate. 
¤ In some companies, it is bad management that is 
responsible.
¤ In others, the entire business has turned bad and there is 
little that the company can do to reverse the process.
17
Implications for Investors
¨ If equities are value driven, the stock price for a company will 
reflect its investment choices, and companies that invest their 
money badly will be priced lower than companies that invest their 
money well. 
¨ The returns you will make on these companies, though, will 
depend upon whether the excess returns that they deliver in the 
future are greater or lower than expectations. 
¤ Thus, a company that earns a return on capital of 5%, much lower than its 
cost of capital of 10%, which is priced to continue doing the same will see 
if its stock price increase if it can improve its return on capital to 7%, still 
lower than the cost of capital, but higher than expected. 
¤ A company that earns a return on capital of 25%, well above its cost of 
capital of 10%, and priced on the assumption that it can continue on its 
value generating path, will see its stock price drop, if the returns it 
generates on capital drop to 20%, well above the cost of capital, but still 
below expectations.
18
Which explains findings like this one..
19
Final Thoughts on Corporate Governance
¨ Check box corporate finance: Corporate governance laws and 
measures have focused on check boxes on director independence 
and corporate rules, rather than the end game of better managed 
companies. 
¨ Real corporate governance: Corporate governance should give 
stockholders a chance to change the way companies are run, and if 
corporate governance works well, you should see more 
management turnover at companies that don't earn what they 
need to on capital. 
¨ A Cynical afterthought: The fact that six in ten companies across 
the globe earned well below their cost of capital in 2018, added to 
the reality that many of these companies have been under 
performing for years, and are still run by the same management, 
makes me wonder whether the push towards better corporate 
governance is more talk than action.
