Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate10.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE X: A 
CORPORATE LIFE CYCLE 
PERSPECTIVE
Heat and Light…
2
The Lead In
¨ Fear versus Greed: Fear and greed are dueling forces in financial 
markers at all times, but especially so in periods of uncertainty, 
when they pull in opposite directions, causing wild market swings 
and momentum shifts. 
¨ Crisis Sub-periods: I think that no matter what your market views 
are, you would agree that we are in a period of intense uncertainty, 
with divergent views on how this pandemic will play out, not just in 
the coming months, but in the coming years. It is this divergence 
that have been at the heart of both the steep fall in markets in 
February and March, and the equally precipitous rise in April and 
May. 
¨ Life cycle: Using the framework of a corporate life cycle, and record 
a redistribution of value from older, low growth, more capital-
intensive companies to younger, high growth companies.
3
Market Action: Equities
4
Market Action: Treasuries
5
Market Action: Corporate Bonds
6
Market Action: Commodity Prices
7
Market Action: Gold and Bitcoin
8
Equities: By Region
9
Equities: By Sector
10
Equities: Worst hit and Best Industries
Growing old is hard to do…
A Corporate Life Cycle
12
The Corporate Life Cycle
13
Cashflows across the life cycle…
14
And a Balance Sheet perspective…
15
How crisis affect companies across the life
cycle…
¨ Start up and very young companies : For young companies, the challenge is survival, 
since they mostly have small or no revenues, and are money losers. They need capital 
to make it to the next and more lucrative phases in the life cycle, and in a crisis, access 
to capital (from venture capitalists or public equity) can shut down or become 
prohibitively expensive, as investors become more fearful. 
¨ Young growth companies: For young growth companies that have turned the corner on 
profitability, capital access still remains critical since it is needed for future growth. 
Without that capital, the values of these firms will shrink towards assets in place, and 
in a crisis, these firms have to hunker down and scale back their growth ambitions.
¨ Mature firms: For mature firms, the bigger damage from a crisis is the punishment it 
metes to assets in place, as the economy slows or goes into recession, and consumers 
cut back on spending. The effect will be greater on companies that sell discretionary 
products than on companies that sell staples.
¨ Declining firms : For declining firms, especially those with substantial debt, a crisis can 
tip them into distress and default, especially if access to risk capital declines, and risk 
premiums increase.
16
COVID: Young versus Old
17
COVID: High Growth versus Low Growth
18
What’s different?
¨ Crisis Origins: This crisis seems to have had a much greater negative 
impact on older, more mature companies than on younger, high growth 
ones. perhaps because it started at a time, when capital markets were 
buoyant and investors were eagerly taking on risk, with risk premiums in 
both equity and bond markets at close to decade-level lows, with a global 
economic shut down, with a cessation of most business activity. 
¨ With a Timer: That shut down came with a time frame, though there was 
uncertainty not only about when economic activity would start up again, 
but how vigorously it would return. 
¨ Private Risk Capital: Young companies have benefited from the fact, that 
after being on hold in the first few weeks of the crisis, risk capital came 
roaring back in the middle of March, both in public and private markets. 
That access to risk capital has also benefited distressed companies at the 
other end of the life cycle, explaining why you have seen surges in airline 
stock prices and in portions of the oil sector.
19
In conclusion
¨ The trajectory of markets in this crisis has followed the 
Corona virus, with markets rising and falling on news 
about viral breakouts in different parts of the world and 
vaccines/medication to mitigate its effects. 
¨ It should therefore come as no surprise that just as the 
virus has had its most deadly effects on the elderly and 
the infirm, the market is meting out the biggest 
punishment to aging companies. 
¨ As we pass the four-month mark since this crisis started 
roiling financial markets in the US and Europe, it is still 
an evolving story and there will be more twists and turns 
before it is done.
