Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DCFMythUncertainty.pdf

MYTH	3	ABOUT	DCF:	YOU	CANNOT	
VALUE	 BUSINESSES	WHEN	THERE	IS	
LOTS	OF	UNCERTAINTY
Not	looking	at	it	is	not	making	it	go	away!
2
Uncertainty:	A	Fact	of	Life
¨ Uncertainty	has	always	been	part	of	human	existence,	
though	it	has	transitioned	from	the	physical	uncertainty	
that	characterized	the	caveman	era	to	the	economic	
uncertainty	that	is	more	typical	of	today,	at	least	in	
developed	markets.	
¨ Each	generation,	though,	seems	to	think	that	it	lives	in	
the	age	of	the	greatest	uncertainty.	
¤ That	may	 be	partially	 a	reflection	 of	a	broader	 sense	 of	
"specialness"	 that	afflicts	each	generation.	
¤ The	other	is	a	variation	 of	hindsight	bias,	where	 we	can	look	 at	
the	past	and	convince	ourselves	 that	what	actually	happened	
should	have	been	obvious	 before	it	occurred.
3
So,	why	do	we	feel	so	uncertain?
¨ Low	Interest	Rates:	As	rates	have	dropped,	investors	
seem	to	have	pushed	up	risk	premiums	to	compensate.		
¨ Globalization:	
¤ The	first	is	that	there	seem	 to	be	no	localized	 problems	 any	
more,	 with	 anyone's	 problem	 becoming	 everyone's	 problem.	
¤ The	center	 of	global	economic	 power	is	shifting	from	the	US	and	
Europe	to	Asia.
¨ Media/Online	Megaphones:	The	speed	with	which	
information	is	transmitted	around	the	world	has	allowed	
market	risks	to	go	viral	almost	instantaneously.
4
The	Unhealthy	responses
1. Paralysis	 and	Inaction:	I	will	 not	act	until	the	
uncertainty	is	resolved.
2. Denial	and	Delusion:	If	I	have	more	detail	or	add	more	
decimals,	my	numbers	get	more	precise,	right?
3. Mental	Accounting:	I	will	make	up	a	rule	of	thumb	that	
has	no	basis	in	reality	but	it	makes	me	feel	better .
4. Outsourcing:	 I	will	ask	someone	else	or	listen	to	an	
expert.	That	way,	if	something	goes	wrong…
5. Prayer	and	Divine	Intervention:	Please	God!!
5
Coping	Tools
¨ Left	to	our	own	devices,	we	will	all	fall	back	on	these	
unhealthy	responses.	
¨ The	only	way	to	reduce	the	likelihood	is	to	develop	
coping	mechanisms,	i.e.,	healthier	processes	for	
dealing	with	uncertainty.	
¨ Those	coping	mechanisms	will	be	different	for	
different	investors	and	will	reflect	their	risk	aversion,	
tools	and	investment	philosophy.
6
1.	Have	a	narrative
¨ A	good	valuation	has	both	a	narrative	(a	story	that	
you	are	telling	about	a	company)	and	numbers	to	
back	it	up.
¨ When	faced	with	uncertainties	about	specifics,	go	
back	to	your	narrative	for	the	company	and	reframe	
the	question	around	the	narrative.	
¤ If	events	occurring	will	change	your	narrative,	you	should	
expect	your	value	to	change	as	well.	
¤ If	they	do	not,	they	may	loom	large	but	have	little	impact	
on	value.
7
2a.	Break	down	uncertainty
Type	of	Uncertainty The	Difference Why	we	care	in	investing	&	valuation
Estimation	versus	Economic Economic	uncertainty	refers	to	the	
unexpected	changes	doled	out	bye	fate	
that	no	amount	of	research	or	
information	is	going	to	give	us	insight	
into.	Estimation	uncertainty	relates	to	
judgments	in	investing	and	valuation	
that	can	be	improved	by	collecting	 more	
information	and	using	it	better.
When	 much	of	the	uncertainty	that	you	
face	is	estimation	uncertainty,	you	
should	invest	in	more	information	and	
spend	more	time	on	analysis,	since	will	
improve	your	accuracy.	When	much	of	it	
is	economic	uncertainty,	the	payoff	to	
collecting	 and	analyzing	information	is	
much	smaller.	It	 is	better	to	make	your	
best	judgments	and	move	on.
Micro	versus	Macro	 Micro	uncertainty	is	at	the	company-
level	and	may	come	from	management	
decisions,	legal	entanglements	and	even	
from	immediate	competitors.	Macro	
uncertainty	can	be	traced	back	to	larger	
forces,	i.e.,	the	swings	in	fortune	caused	
by	changes	in	inflation,	interest	rates	
and	economic	 cycles.
If	the	investors	pricing	stocks,	at	 the	
margin,	are	diversified,	the	 rate	of	return	
they	demand	(the	discount	rate)	should	
reflect	only	or	 primarily	 macro	 economic	
risk	 exposure,	 since	micro	 economic	
risks	 will	be	averaged	out	 in	the	
portfolio.	Y ou	will	still	adjust	expected	
cash	flows	for	micro	economic	 risks.
Discrete	versus	Continuous Continuous	risk	is	risk	that	you	are	
exposed	to	on	a	continuous	basis,	
though	the	moment-to-moments	 will	
tend	to	be	small.	Discrete	 risk	is	risk	that	
is	uncommon	but	potentially	
catastrophic.
Tr ad i ti o n al 	v al u ati o n 	mo d el s ,	 b u i l t	o n 	
expected	 cash	flows	and	risk-adjusted	
discount	rates,	are	best	suited	for	
continuous	risks.	Discrete	 and	large	risks	
are	best	reflected	by	estimating	 the	
probabilities	of	their	occurring	and	the	
consequences	 if	they	do.
8
2b.	And	decide	where	you	will	put	it..
9
3.	Keep	it	simple
¨ Less	is	more:	The	more	uncertainty	there	is,	the	
simpler	my	valuation	models	become,	with	fewer	
inputs	and	less	levers	to	move.
¨ Don’t	sweat	the	small	stuff:	Separate	the	big	items	
that	matter	from	those	that	do	not	and	keep	your	
focus	on	those	items.
10
4.	Make	your	best	estimates
¨ Bad	News:	You	are	going	to	be	wrong and	not	
because	your	information	is	bad,	your	models	are	
screwed	up	or	your	valuation	skills	are	rusty.	It	is	
because	the	real	world	is	unpredictable.
¨ Good	News:	You	don’t	have	to	be	right	to	make	
money.	You	just	have	to	be	less	wrong	than	everyone	
else.
11
5.	Face	up	to	uncertainty
¨ One	reason	that	we	are	so	troubled	by	uncertainty	is	
because	we	are	asked	to	make	point	estimates	(of	
revenues,	margins,	risk	etc.),	when	we	face	
probability	distributions	with	each	one.
¨ Being	able	to	input	probability	distributions,	while	it	
does	require	some	homework,	for	inputs	is	freeing.
12
6.	Be	willing	to	be	wrong
1. Don’t	expect	your	just	rewards:	You	can	do	
everything	right	and	still	be	wrong.
2. There	is	no	uncertainty	in	the	past:	It	is	only	in	
hindsight	that	the	great	investments	 of	the	past	
seem	to	be	sure	things.
3. Spreading	your	bets	is	not	a	sign	of	weakness:	Since	
being	wrong	is	part	of	the	process,	loading	up	on	a	
few	big	bets	will	always	expose	you	to	a	greater	
chance	of	being	wrong,	all	else	being	equal.
13
Looking	for	an	edge?
¨ If	investing	 is	a	game	that	you	can	win	at,	only	if	you	
have	an	edge,	finding	that	edge	has	become	more	
and	more	difficult	as	the	investing	world	gets	flatter .
¨ As	we	face	new	uncertainties,	one	possible	edge	to	
consider	is	that	you	may	be	able	to	train	yourself	to	
become	better	at	dealing	with	uncertainty	than	most	
other	investors.
¨ You	can	exploit	that	edge	when	it	is	darkest,	i.e.,	
when	markets	are	in	crisis	or	in	the	portions	of	the	
market	where	storm	clouds	have	gathered.
