Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/Slides/Session6.pdf

SESSION 6: PROBABILITIES & 
PROBABILISTIC TOOLS
Session 6
There is a chance!
2
What is a probability? 
¨When you cannot predict outcomes with certainty, probabilities 
allow you to measure the likelihood of an outcome occurring.
¨The probability of an outcome will range from zero to one, with 
zero representing no chance and one representing total certainty.
¨You can measure the probabilities of discrete events (an 
acquisition, bankruptcy etc.) as well as the probabilities of a 
continuous variable taking a value greater or less than a specified 
value (earnings will exceed zero, market cap will exceed a billion).
3
Two views of probability
¨Frequentist view: In the frequentist view, probability 
measures the frequency with which an event will occur, if it is 
repeated many times. 
¤In theory, you want to measure the frequency of an outcome if an 
experiment is repeated an infinite number of times.
¤While it is objective, it requires that an event be repeatable, and is 
thus narrow.
¨Subjectivist (Bayesian) view: In the subjectivist view, 
probability is the value that a rational agent would assign to 
the likelihood of an event happening. 
¤You can assign probabilities to events, even if they are not repeatable.
¤Unlike the frequentist view, rational individuals can disagree on the 
probability of an event occurring.
4
Cumulative and Conditional Probabilities
¨When you have sequential events, the cumulative 
probability measures the likelihood of a specific series of 
outcomes. To compute cumulative probabilities, each 
event in the sequence has tobe independent of the 
others in that sequence.
¤Thus,youcan estimate theprobabilitythat an investor will beat 
the market ten years in a row, even if he or she is picking stocks 
randomly.
¨A conditional probability measures the likelihood of an 
event or outcome, based upon the occurrence of a prior 
event or outcome. 
¤For instance, you can estimate the probability that the market 
will be up tomorrow, given that it was up today.
5
Probability Rules
1. It is bounded: For any event X, 0 ≤ P(X) ≤ 1
2. It covers the universe of outcomes: The sum of the probabilities of 
all possible outcomes is one.
3. The Complement Rule states that P(not X) = 1 –P(X)
4. The General Addition Rule states that for any two events, P(X or Y) 
= P(X) + P(Y) –P(X and Y), where P(X and Y) is the probability of 
both X and Y occurring at the same time. If they are mutually 
exclusive, the rule simplifies to P(X or Y) = P(X) + P(Y). 
5. The Multiplication Rulestates that for two independent events to 
occur together, P(X and Y) = P(X) * P(Y). If they are not 
independent, P(X and Y) = P(X) * P(Y/X), where P(Y/X) is the 
conditional probability of Y happening, given that X has happened.
6
Bayesian Statistics
¨Bayes' theoremdescribes the probability of an event 
occurring, based upon prior knowledge of other variables 
related to that event. 
¤In effect, it is a conditional probability, with the probability of an event 
conditioned on the information/knowledge that you have.
¤Since the information/knowledge that different individuals can have 
about an event can vary, Bayes’ theorem allows for differences in 
probability estimates for the same event across individuals.
¨In Bayesian Inference, you update the probability of an event 
happening as you receive new evidence or information.
¤The probability that you assign to an event before you receive the new 
information represent your priors.
¤The probability that you assign to that same event after receiving and 
processing new information represent your posteriorestimate.
7
1. Probit& Logit Models: Techniques for 
estimating probabilities
¨A probitmodelis a variant on the standard regression 
approach, with the key difference being that the dependent 
variable can take on only one of two values (binary) and a 
secondary one being a transformation of the linear model to 
ensure that the predicted value from the model is a number 
between 0 and 1 (limits for a probability estimate).
¤Example: You can estimate the probability of a hostile acquisition of a 
company based upon its size, past stock price performance and insider 
holdings.
¨A logit model is a close relative to a probit, with the 
difference revolving around the function that they use to 
transform the standard linear model, with the logit model 
using a logistic distribution and the probita normal 
distribution.
8
A Logit Model: Predicting Bankruptcy
¨In investing and valuation, one of the concerns that you face 
is that the business that you are investing inor valuing may 
go out of business. Predicting the probability of bankruptcy 
becomes a part of the challenge.
¨There are logit models that have been used to predict 
bankruptcy, where
¤You start with all firms at the start of the period
¤The dependent variable becomes the stand-in for whether a firm 
survives or goes bankrupt during the study period
¤The independent variables reflect what you believe are key drivers of 
bankruptcy (earnings level and volatility, debt level and payments due, 
market access to capital).
¤You build a logit model that will yield as output an equation that 
resembles a regression, butwill yield a probability of bankruptcy.
9
A ProbitModel: Hostile Acquisitions
¨While there are no easy pathways to making money, it seems 
clear that investors in companies that are targeted in 
acquisitions (especially hostile ones) earn high returns, but 
only if they invest before the event.
¨There are probitmodels for predicting companies that will be 
targeted, and they involve:
¤You start with all firms that publicly traded at the start of a period
¤The dependent variable becomes the stand-in for whether a firm is 
targeted in a hostile acquisition 
¤The independent variables reflect what you believe are key drivers of 
hostile acquisitions, including poor stock price performance, lagging 
accounting returns and managers with little or no shareholdings.
¤You build a probitmodel that will yield as output an equation that 
resembles a regression, butwill yield a probability of a hostile 
acquisition.
10
2. Decision Trees
¨A decision tree is a flow chart used to capture the 
probabilities and outcomes of random events, where the 
likelihood of an event is affected by prior events occurring or 
not occurring.
¨Within decision trees, you can build not only the outcomes 
of chance but also the decisions that follow from these 
outcomes and the end outcomes for each branch.
Event or Change nodes represent when uncertainty is resolved, with 
event branches representing mutually exclusive and exhaustive, with 
probability estimates.
Decision nodes point where you decide to go on or stop. The branches 
represent mutually exclusive paths to follow.
Terminal or End node is the final outcomeor payoff from each branch.
11
And follow through..
¨Folding (Rolling) back a decision tree: If you have a 
complete decision tree, with probabilities attached to 
event branches, and outcomes following from the end of 
each decision branch, you can roll back the decision tree, 
by
¤Estimating the expected value of each branch, starting with the 
right and working towards the left, using the probabilities and 
payoffs.
¤Compute an expected value for the entire tree, across branches.
¨If there is a time lag across the branches, and/or risk 
involved in the process, you can incorporate those 
elements into a decision tree as well in the form of a 
discount rate that you use discount payoffs at each leg.
12
3. Scenario Analysis
¨Scenario analysis is best employed when the outcomes of a 
project are a function of the macro economic environment 
and/or competitive responses.
¨There are a couple of ways in which you can structure 
scenario analysis
¤Best-case, Worst-case analyses, where you set all the inputs at their 
most optimistic and most pessimistic levels. In general, this leaves you 
with findings that are not of much practical use.
¤Plausible scenarios: Here, you define what you feel are the most 
plausible scenarios (allowing for the interaction across variables) and 
come up withestimates for each scenario.
¨For scenario analysis to be most useful, you have tobe able 
to
¤List scenarios to cover all possible outcomes
¤Estimate probabilities for the scenarios
¤Complete with an expected value.
