Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate7for2026.pdf

”Neither a borrower nor a lender be”
2
§In my last two data updates, I focused first on hurdle rates, in my 
fifth data update and then looked at profitability/return 
measures in my sixth data update.  Both can be affected by how 
much debt companies choose to have in their financing structure, 
and it did enter explicitly into my cost of capital calculations, both 
through the costs of equity/debt and the mix of the two, and into 
my accounting return calculations, at least for return on equity. 
§In this session, I will start with an examination of the trade off 
that all businesses face when it comes to choosing between 
debt and equity to finance themselves and then look the debt 
choices that companies made in 2025 to fund their operations. 
§As with every other one of my data updates this year, AI enters this 
conversation not only of the huge investments that are being 
made into AI architecture, but also because a non-trivial portion 
of this investment is coming from debt, with private credit as a 
lead contributor.
3
4
5
6
7
8
1. Marginal Tax Rates: The marginal tax rate reflects taxes paid 
on the last dollar of taxable income, and thus comes from the 
statutory tax code of the domicile that the business operates 
in. While there are a few companies that try to report these 
tax rates, you are more likely to uncover them by going into 
the tax code.
2. Effective tax rates: The effective tax rate is an accounting 
measure, reflecting the taxes paid and taxable income line 
items in the income statement, which follows accrual 
accounting principles.
3. Cash tax rates: The cash tax rates also come from accounting 
statements, with the information in the statement of cash 
flows used to convert accrual taxes paid to cash taxes paid, 
and are reflective of what companies actually pay to 
governments during the course of the year.
9
10
In 2025, the average cash tax rate across companies 
with taxable income was 25.86% (21.02%) for global 
(US) firms, about 1% higher than the effective tax 
rate in both cases.
11
12
§While the low defaults in 2025 were a positive sign for lenders, 
especially given the economic turmoil created by tariffs and 
trade wars, there were some worrying trends as well.
§During the year, Moody’s estimate of the probability of default 
at US companies spiked to 9.2% in May 2025, a post-2008 
high.
§On the bond ratings front, you had more ratings downgrades 
than upgrades during 2025, estimates of the probability of 
default spiked during the year and almost $60 billion in 
corporate bonds slipped below investment grade during the 
year.
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
§If you agree with my contention that companies are collectively 
over investing in AI, driven by the big market delusion, there 
will be a time when that delusion will dissipate, and markets 
will have to correct. 
§In an all or mostly-equity driven space, the pain will be borne 
by shareholders or owners of these companies, but while painful to 
them, its ripple effects will be limited. 
§When debt enters the picture, as it has with some of the AI 
investment, the effects of a correction will no longer be isolated 
to equity investors in these companies, and as private credit 
gets repriced (from the marking of debt down to reflect higher 
default risk), the pain to the rest of the economy increases. 
§Private credit has had a good run, in terms of delivering returns 
to investors in it, but a shakeout is overdue, which will 
separate the sloppy lenders from the good ones, and perhaps 
shrink private credit to healthier levels.
