Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch13.pdf

CHAPTER 13: 
VALUING DECLINING 
FIRMS
Aswath Damodaran
§Stagnant or declining revenues: Perhaps the most telling sign of a 
company in decline is its inability to increase revenues over 
extended periods, even when times are good. Falling revenues or 
revenues that grow at less than the inflation rate indicates 
operating weakness. 
§Shrinking or negative margins: The stagnant revenues at declining 
firms are often accompanied by shrinking operating margins, 
partly because of declining pricing power and partly because 
these companies are dropping the prices that they charge for their 
products and services, to keep revenues from falling further. 
§Asset divestitures: If one of the features of a declining firm is that 
existing assets are sometimes worth more to others, who intend to 
put them to different and better uses, it stands to reason that asset 
divestitures will be more frequent at declining firms than at firms 
earlier in the life cycle. 
§Interspersed with acquisitions in search of growth: In what seem 
like a contradictory development, you are also more likely to see 
acquisitions, at least at some declining firms, with many driven by 
desperation and titled as defensive mergers.
§Big payouts -dividends and stock buybacks: Declining firms, and 
especially those with low debt burdens, not only pay out large 
dividends, sometimes exceeding their earnings, but also buy back 
stock.
§The downside of financial leverage: If debt is a double-edged 
sword, declining firms often are exposed to the wrong edge. With 
stagnant and declining earnings from existing assets and little 
potential for earnings growth, it is not surprising that some 
declining firms face overwhelming debt burdens.
Aswath Damodaran
§Earning less than cost of capital: In many 
declining firms, existing assets, even if 
profitable, earn less than the cost of capital. 
The natural consequence is that discounting 
the cash flows back at the cost of capital will 
yield a value that is less than the capital 
invested in those assets
§Divestiture effects: If existing assets earn less 
than the cost of capital, the logical response is 
to sell or divest these assets and hope that the 
best buyer will pay a high price for them. 
§These divestitures of assets create 
discontinuities in past data and make forecasting 
more difficult. 
§All the operating numbers from last year, 
including revenues, margins, and reinvestment 
are affected by the divestiture, but the numbers 
for the year reflect the operating results from the 
portion of the year before the divestiture. 
§Similarly, risk parameters such as betas, where 
we use past prices or returns, can be affected by 
divestitures of assets midway through the period. 
Aswath Damodaran
§If a firm’s business has turned bad, i.e., 
investments earn less than the cost of capital, a 
sensible management will try to shrink the 
firm, by divesting assets that earn well below 
the cost of capital.
§Divestitures can lead to negative growth rates, 
while bringing cash into the firm, at least for 
the foreseeable future. Analysts who have 
learned their valuation fundamentals at 
healthier companies often are uncomfortable 
with the notion of negative growth rates and 
cash flows that exceed earnings, but that 
combination characterizes many declining 
firms.
§Some declining firms are in denial about their 
standing in the life cycle, and they continue to 
invest in new assets, as if they had growth 
potential, with perverse effects on value. A 
declining firm that tries to invest larger and 
larger amounts in new assets with low 
expected returns and in overpriced 
acquisitions, may be able to grow 
Aswath Damodaran
§The large dividends and buybacks that 
characterize some declining firms can have an 
effect onthe overall value of equity and debt 
ratios we use in the computation. 
§Returning large amounts of cash to stockholders 
reduces the market value of equity, through the 
market price, with dividends, and the number of 
shares, with stock buybacks. 
§If debt is not repaid proportionately, the debt ratio 
increases, which affects costs of debt, equity, and 
capital.
§The divestitures of some assets, and the 
acquisitions of other assets can lead to changes in 
operating risk and costs of capital.
§The presence of distresscan have significant 
effects on both the cost of equity and debt. The 
cost of debt increases as default risk increases, 
and some rated firms will see their ratings drop to 
junk status. As debt-to-equity ratios climb, the cost 
of equity should also increase as equity investors 
see much more volatility in earnings. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§The valuation of a declining company starts with a story, albeit one that reflects the realities that the company 
faces. That will include a shrinking market for its 
products and services, increased competition for what’s 
left of the market and worries about survival. 
§The starting point for your story must be with a diagnosis 
of what it is that is causing the company’s market or 
revenues to shrink, which can range from social or health costs (tobacco) to an aging market to disruption from 
outside.
§Yo u r  s t o r y  also should incorporate your expectations 
about how the management at a declining firm will respond. 
§The first, and perhaps most frequent one, is denial, where 
management refuses to face up to decline, attributing any symptoms of operating malaise (k.
§The second is desperation, where management tries 
everythingit can to reverse decline, including acquiring growth companies in other businesses and investing in 
the disruptive technologies that caused their decline in 
the first place.
§The third is acceptance, where managers accept their 
standing in the life cycle, and adopt corporate financial 
policies that reflect that standing. 
§The fourth is reinvention, where managers uncover the 
core competencies and competitive advantages that 
allowed their firms to succeed in the first place and use 
them to create new business models or enter new 
markets, thus opening the doors to fresh leases on 
corporate life. 
Aswath Damodaran
§When valuing declining companies, listening 
to management stories about what they plan 
to do with these companies, can easily lead 
to fairy tales. 
§It is your job to assess whether a turnaround 
plan, as presented by management, is a fairy 
tale or plausible, and if plausible, whether the 
management team in place is the one that can 
deliver on its probable outcomes. In making 
this assessment, there are at least three factors 
that come into play:
§Company-specific versus Sector problems: 
Generally, it is easier to map and deliver 
turnaround strategies for the company-specific 
decline, rather than for macro-or sector-wide 
decline
§Competitive actions: It is easier to map a 
turnaround plan, when a few companies are in 
decline, but most in the sector are healthy, than it 
is to map turnaround plans, when most companies 
in a sector are fighting decline at the same time. 
§Management history and capabilities: If you 
believe that a turnaround plan is plausible, you 
still must assess whether the company has the 
management in place and the resources (capital, 
infrastructure, personnel), that it needs, to execute 
the plan. 
Aswath Damodaran
ExpectedManagementResponsetoDecliningBusiness
Denial Desperation Acceptance Reinvention
RevenueGrowth Negative Positiveblips
from
acquisitionsor
investments
Negative Positive, but
maytaketime
tounfold
Profitability Long-term
decline
Mayseeshort
term boosts
butwillfadeto
long-term
decline.
Short-term 
decline, then 
stability
Decline in 
near-term but 
increase over 
time to reflect 
new business 
margins.
Reinvestment Continue with 
status quo, in 
existing 
business
Significantand
unpredictable
reinvestment
(acquisitions)
Negative
(divestitures)
Negative, in
existing
business,but
positiveinnew
business(es)
Risk Stable 
operating risk 
+ Increased 
failure risk
Volatile 
operating risk 
+ Increased 
failure risk
Stable 
operating risk 
+ Stable failure 
risk
Melded
operatingrisk,
toreflectnew
business
entered.
Aswath Damodaran
§For management in denial, a combination of shrinking revenues and declining margins, in the long term, 
will cause long term declines in earnings and cash 
flows, pushing the company either into distress (where 
equity will be worth nothing) or into a terminal value, as a bad business, where equity will be worth very little.
§For management in acceptance, revenues will shrink, 
and margins will compress in the short term, before stabilizing into a steady state terminal value, reflective of 
a smaller, but healthier, company or into a liquidation 
value, if that yields a higher payoff.
§For management in desperation, there is no predictable pattern to earnings and cash flows, but 
whatever benefits to value that may accrue from 
temporary surges in growth or profitability, usually from 
acquisitions, will fade, and over time, be more than offset by the cost of the reinvestment needed to deliver that 
surge, creating value destruction on steroids.
§For management intent on reinvention, there will be no 
short-term reprieve from shrinking revenues and margin pressure, but to the extent that the reinvention works, the 
firm’ s revenue growth, margins and reinvestment, will 
change over time to incorporate the effects of the new 
business or market entered.
Aswath Damodaran
§If you are assuming a management in denial, in 
your valuation, a change in top management, 
a reconstruction of the board of directors or a 
new CEO will comprise a break from the past, 
and should lead to a reassessment, though you 
will have to decide which path the new 
management will be taking.
§If you have valued a company on the presumption 
that it is run by desperate managers, chasing 
growth at any cost, the entry of activist investors 
into the shareholder ranks creates the possibility 
of push back, and perhaps even change at the 
company.
§If your valuation of a declining company is built 
on the assumption that managers will follow a 
sensible path, either by accepting decline as 
an inevitable and working within its limits, or 
by reinventing the firm, by pushing into new 
businesses or market, there is always a chance, 
given that these can both take a long time to 
unfold, that investors don’t have the faith to hold 
on, and that these paths will be abandoned before 
they have a chance to deliver results.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Revenue Growth/Levels: We will assume a 10% drop in revenues in year 1, followed by 5% drops every year in 
the following four years, and a gradual come back to 
positive growthonly in year 9. 
§Operating Margins: We will assume that the operating margins at these remaining stores will converge on the 
average margin across US retailers of 5.54%, well below 
the double-digit margins enjoyed by BB&B stores in their heyday.
§Reinvestment: Since we are assuming that the company 
will shrink, there will be no new reinvestment. Instead, 
there will be cash flows from the divestitures and store shutdowns that augment operating cash flows and be 
available for return to shareholders or paying down 
debt.
§Risk: As the company shuts stores, we assume that the lease debt for the firm will decline, and as the company 
returns to profitability, it will be able to reduce its debt 
burden to manageable levels. Given that it is being rated 
at well below junk, though, there remains a significant chance of failure, which we estimate to be 23.74%, 
based upon its current (Moody’s) bond rating of B1.
§Steady State/Stable Growth: In our story, we do see a soft 
landing for BB&B, assuming it makes through the next decade, where it will be able to find a niche market, as a 
smaller business, where it can maintain stable growth, 
while earnings a return on invested capital close to 
the average for mature retail firms.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§If these companies are outliers in their sectors 
(they are declining companies in sectors with 
primarily healthy companies), the results of 
this pricing will be predictable. 
§The declining company will look cheap, 
because it will trade at lower multiples than the 
rest of the sector. 
§To make a legitimate comparison, we must 
examine differences in risk, revenue growth, 
and expected profitability over time. 
§If the entire sector is declining, you must 
control for the degree of decline across 
companies.
§With forward pricing metrics, the problems 
shift to the distress issue. This works only if you 
assume that good health is guaranteed and that 
there is no chance of default. 
§If, as many do, you use book value of assets as 
a proxy for their liquidation value, you should 
not be surprised again to see declining 
companies look like bargains. In a declining 
business, buyers will be unwilling to pay book 
value for assets, as liquidation value, given the 
poor underlying business economics. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Book Value: For declining companies that have 
built large tangible asset bases, it does make 
sense to scale their market values, 
representing what investors estimate it to be 
worth, to their book values, indicating what 
accountants estimate the company has 
invested in its asset. 
§Replacement Cost: In a variant of the first 
approach, you can estimate what it would cost 
someone to replicate the existing assets of the 
business, in a replacement cost measure, and 
scale the enterprise value to this replacement 
cost. 
§Forward Operating Numbers: There is a third 
option, and this should be a familiar one since 
we also used it with start-ups and high growth 
companies, where rather than scale the market 
values of declining companies to current 
operating numbers, you scale them to your 
future estimates of them. This approach can be 
useful, if you believe that a declining firm can 
stabilize or turn around its operations, and that 
market is pricing in the expectation that it will.
Aswath Damodaran
§Other declining companies: To value a distressed 
firm, you may be able to find a group of declining 
and/or distressed firms in the same business and 
look at how much the market is willing to pay for 
them.  Although this approach has promise, it 
works only if many firms in a sector slip into 
financial trouble at the same time. In addition, by 
categorizing firms as declining or not, you run the 
risk of lumping together firms that are declining 
to different degrees, with distress adding a wild 
card to the mix.
§Healthy companies in the sector: If you have a firm 
that is declining and/or distressed in a sector 
filled with healthy companies, you have no choice 
but to create a peer group of companies that are 
in much better operating and financial shape than 
your company. 
§On the surface, your company will look cheap, using 
revenue earnings or book value multiples, relative to 
the peer group, but that is because of differences in 
financial health across these companies. 
§Consequently, you should also collect the data on 
these operating metrics, including revenue growth, profitability and reinvestment, for all ofthe 
companies in the peer group, since you will need to 
control for differences. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Operating performance: Shrinking 
revenues and compressing operating 
margins will knock down the market 
pricing of a company. At the minimum, 
you must consider how differences in 
revenue growth and operating margins 
play out in the pricing of companies in the 
peer group. 
§Distress: Declining companies are more 
likely to be exposed to distress risk than 
healthy companies, and since distress 
leads to forced liquidations and bad 
outcomes for equity investors, you would 
expect the pricing to reflect that. 
§Management: To the extent that market 
participants are factoring in management 
response, the pricing should be lower for 
declining companies with management in 
denial than management in acceptance, 
and for companies with desperate than 
with purposeful management. 
Aswath Damodaran
Market 
Cap EV PE
EV
/Sales
Revenue 
Growth 
(next 2 
years)
Operating 
Margin 
Average 11.70 1.26 5.98% 8.69%
First 
Quartile 5.13 0.60 0.67% 5.42%
Median 7.25 0.97 3.85% 8.22%
Third 
Quartile 17.22 1.74 9.78% 12.03%
Bed Bath & 
Beyond $698 $3,867 NA 0.52 -12.70% -5.24%
AswathDamodaran
§One of the features of discounted cash flow 
valuation is that it is additive. In other words, 
if you have tovalue a company in three 
businesses, you can either value the combined 
company, by adding up its cash flows across 
the three businesses and discounting at a 
discount rate that is a value-weighted average 
across the business, or you can value each of 
the three businesses, using the cash flows and 
discount rate of that business in the valuation, 
and add up those values. In theory, at least, you 
should get the same value for the company 
doing either. 
§We will term the first aggregated valuation and 
the second disaggregated valuation and 
explore the differences. If your exposure in 
valuation has always been to aggregated 
valuations, there are two reasons why it is the 
dominant approach. 
§As investors, we invest in entire companies, not 
in their disaggregated parts. 
§Most information disclosure is on an 
aggregated business, with GE and Coca Cola’s 
reporting full financial statements (income 
statements, balance sheets and statement of cash 
flows) for the entire companies. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Fundamental Differences: With multi-business 
companies and multinationals, one advantage of 
valuing each business or geographic segment 
separately is that you can then assign different risk, 
cash flow and growth profiles to each one rather than 
trying to create one weighted profile for the whole 
company. 
§Growth Differences: If some businesses and 
geographic segments are growing much more 
quickly than others within the same company, it 
becomes difficult to do an aggregated valuation that 
reflects these different growth rates. For instance, a 
bottom-up beta that represents a weighted average 
of the businesses that a company is in, will have to 
change over time, if some businesses grow more than 
others.
§Transactional Reasons: In some cases, you will need 
to value a portion of a company, rather than an entire 
company, because that portion will be sold or spun 
off and requires a value specific to it. This need 
becomes acute when you are valuing a company that 
is on the verge of being broken up into parts.
§Management Reasons: Within a company, it makes 
sense to value each part of the business separately, 
both to monitor the performance of different 
divisional managers but also to improve that 
performance. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Step Company Valuation SOTP Valuation
Tell a story A story for the entire 
company, based on its 
mix of operations and 
management in place.
A story for each “part’ of the 
company, based upon that 
part’s operations and a stand-
alone management of that part.
The3PTest Checkthecompany’s
storytoensureitis
possible,plausible&
probable
Checkeachpart’sstoryto
ensureitispossible,plausible
&probable.
Valuation of 
the company
Convert story to 
valuation inputs for the 
company and use those 
inputs to estimate the 
value of the entire firm
Convert story to valuation 
inputs for each part of the 
company and use those inputs 
to value that part. Sum up the 
valuations of the parts and net 
out the value drag from 
unallocated costs.
Equity ValueAdd cash and cross 
holdings & net out debt
Add cash and cross holdings & 
net out debt
Step Company Pricing SOTP Pricing
Pick a 
pricing 
multiple
Pick a scalar (revenues, 
earnings etc.)  for the 
price and estimate the 
pricing multiples for the 
company.
Pick a scalar (revenues, 
earnings etc.)  for each part of 
the company, preserving the 
freedom to pick different 
scalars for different parts.
Find a peer 
group
Find other publicly
tradedcompaniesthat
are“like”yourcompany
on valuation
fundamentals (risk,
growth,cashflows)
Foreachpartofyourcompany,
findotherpubliclytraded
companiesthatare“likethat
“part”, on valuation
fundamentals(risk,growth,
cashflows)
Control for 
differences
Control for differences 
between your company & 
the peer group 
companies on the 
fundamentals.
Control for differences between 
the part of the company you are 
pricing, and the peer group for 
that part on fundamentals. 
Price the 
company
Apply the peer-based 
pricing to your scalar to 
price the company
Apply the peer-based pricing to 
the scalar chosen to price each 
part, aggregate the pricing 
across the parts.
Aswath Damodaran
§If you are then wondering why a 
liquidation pricing would yield a 
different number for a company than a 
conventional pricing, where you price 
the overall company, relative to its peer 
group, there are three major reasons. 
§When a company’s going concern value 
comes under threat, it is possible that the 
collective proceeds you receive from 
selling individual assets to the highest 
bidder will be higher. 
§The second is that a liquidation, especially if 
forced (because of debt coming due or 
distress concerns) will often result in 
discounted prices, as potential buyers 
recognize your immediate need for cash 
and extract bargain prices. 
§The third is that a liquidation can create tax 
consequences for a company, especially 
when older assets that have low or even 
negligible book values are sold.
§For most healthy firms, the going-concern 
value will trump liquidation value.
Aswath Damodaran
§Estimating liquidation value is 
complicated when the assets of the 
firm have business entanglements, 
and thus cannot be valued individually. 
§Furthermore, the likelihood that assets 
will fetch their fair market value will 
decrease as the urgency of the 
liquidation increases. 
§A firm in a hurry to liquidate its assets 
may have to accept a discount on fair 
market value as a price for speedy 
execution. 
§As a note of caution, it is almost never 
appropriate to treat the book value of the 
assets as the liquidation value.  
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Basket Case Equities: While a money-losing, 
indebted firm will be viewed as troubled by 
investors, accountants, and analysts, its equity 
is not worthless. In fact, just as deep out-of-the-
money traded options command value 
because of the possibility that the value of the 
underlying asset may increase above the strike 
price in the remaining lifetime of the option, 
equity commands value because of the time 
premium on the option (the time until the 
bonds mature and come due) and the 
possibility that the value of the assets may 
increase above the face value of the bonds 
before they come due.
§Risk becomes an ally: When a business 
becomes distressed enough that its equity 
becomes an option, risk works to your benefit 
for a simple and intuitive reason.
§Debt/Equity Agency Issues: The equity-as-
option view can also help understand why 
equity investors and lenders can diverge on 
how best to run a business, and that 
divergence will get worse as a company’s 
operations deteriorate and it borrows more. 
Aswath Damodaran
