Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate8.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE VIII: 
HOT BUTTON ISSUES!
Heat and Light…
2
Hot Button Issues
¨ I know that this crisis is not quite done, but I believe we now 
have lived through enough of it to be able to start separating 
winners from losers, and use this winnowing process to 
address three big questions, relating to trends that we have 
been seeing over the last decade.
¤ Will this market correction lead to growth/momentum investing losing 
its mojo and allow value investors to reclaim what they believe is their 
rightful place on top of the investing food chain? 
¤ Has this crisis allowed active investors to shine, and use that 
performance to stop or even reverse the loss of market share to 
passive vehicles (ETFs and index funds) that has occurred over the last 
decade?
¤ Will the small cap premium, missing for so many decades, be 
rediscovered after this market shock?
3
Market Action: Equities
4
Market Action: Treasuries
5
Market Action: Corporate Bonds
6
The Price of Equity Risk
7
Market Action: Commodity Prices
8
Market Action: Gold and Bitcoin
9
Equities: By Region
10
Equities: By Sector
11
Equities: Worst hit and Best Industries
Ben Graham’s revenge?
Value vs Growth
13
The Difference
14
The Value Investing Edge
15
Change in the air?
16
A Crisis Test?
¨ The under performance of value has played out not only 
in the mutual fund business, with value funds lagging 
growth funds, but has also brought many legendary 
value investors down to earth. 
¨ Pushed to explain why, the defense that value investors 
offered was that the 2008 crisis, Fed interventions and 
the rise of the FAANG stocks created a perfect storm that 
rewarded momentum and growth investing, at the 
expense of value. 
¨ Implicit in this argument is the belief that this phase 
would pass and that value investing would regain its 
rightful place.
17
Test 1: Low PE
18
Test 2: Low PBV
19
Test 3: High Dividend Yield
20
Bottom Line on Value vs Growth
¨ I believe that value investing has become ritualistic 
(worshiping at the altar of Buffett and Munger, and paying lip 
service to Ben Graham) and righteous (with finger wagging 
and worse reserved for anyone who invested in growth or 
tech companies). 
¨ I also think that fundamental shifts in the economy, and in 
corporate behavior, have rendered book value, still a key tool 
in the value investor's tool kit, almost worthless in sectors 
other than financial services, and accounting inconsistencies 
have made cross company comparisons much more difficult 
to make. 
¨ On a hopeful note, I think that value investing can recover, 
but only if it is open to more flexible thinking about value, 
less hero worship and less of a sense of entitlement.
The Stock Picking Payoff
Active versus Passive
22
Active vs Passive
¨ In passive investing, as an investor, you allocate your wealth 
across asset classes (equities, bonds, real assets) based upon 
your risk aversion, liquidity needs and time horizon, and 
within each class, rather than pick individual stocks, bonds or 
real assets, you invest in index funds or exchange traded 
funds (ETFs) to cover the spectrum of choices. 
¨ In active investing, you try to time markets (by allocating 
more money to asset classes that you believe are under 
valued and less to those that you think are over valued) or 
pick individual assets that you believe offer the potential for 
higher returns. 
¨ Active investing covers a whole range of different 
philosophies from day trading to buying entire companies 
and holding them for the long term.
23
The Lead In
24
And the reasons
¨ Performance: First, the pioneering studies of mutual fund 
performance, including this famous one that introduced Jensen's 
alpha, came to the surprising conclusion that mutual funds under 
performed by non -trivial amounts. In the years since, there have 
been literally hundreds of studies that have asked the same 
question about mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity, using 
far richer data sets and more sophisticated risk adjustment models 
to arrive at the same result.
¨ Choices: Second, Jack Bogle upended investment management in 
1976 with the Vanguard 500 Index fund, the most disruptive 
change in the history of the investment business. The entry of ETFs 
tilted the game even further in favor of passive investing, while also 
offering active investors new ways of playing sectors and markets.
25
Crisis Test
¨ If active investors wanted to have a chance to shine, they 
have got in their wish in the last few weeks, where their 
market timing and stock picking skills were in the spotlight. 
¨ With their expertise, they should have managed to not only 
to avoid the worst of the damage in the first few weeks, but 
should have then gained on the upside, by redeploying assets 
to the sectors/stocks recovering the quickest. 
¨ While there is anecdotal evidence that some investors were 
able to do this, withBill Ackman's prescient hedgeagainst the 
COVID collapse getting much attention, I am sure that there 
were plenty of other smart investors who not onlydid not see 
it coming, but made things worse by doubling down on losing 
bets or cashing out too early.
26
Mutual Fund Performance
27
What next?
¨ For active investing to deal with its very real problems, it has 
to get past denial (that there is a problem), delusion (that 
active investing is actually working, based upon anecdotal 
evidence) and blame (that it is all someone else's fault). 
¨ Coming out of this crisis, I think that more money will leave 
active investing and flow into passive investing, that active 
investing will continue to shrink as a business, but that there 
will be a subset of active investing that survives and prospers. 
¤ I also don't believe that artificial intelligence and big data will rescue 
active investing, since any investment strategies built purely around 
numbers and mechanics will be quickly replicated and imitated.
¤ Instead, the future will belong to multidisciplinary money managers, 
who have well thought-out and deeply held investment philosophies, 
but are quick to adapt investment strategies to reflect market realities 
and are willing to deal with uncertainty frontally.
Clutching at straws?
The Small Cap Premium
29
The Small Cap Premium
30
A Shift?
31
The Crisis Effect
32
What now?
¨ It is still possible that the shifts in investor behavior and 
corporate performance could benefit small companies in the 
future, but I am hard pressed trying to think of reasons why. 
It is my belief that forces that allowed small cap stocks to 
earn a premium over large cap stocks have largely faded. 
¨ I am not arguing that investing in small cap stocks is a bad 
strategy, but investing in small companies, just because they 
are small, and expecting to get rewarded for doing so, is 
asking to be rewarded for doing very little. Markets are 
unlikely to oblige. 
¨ It is possible that you can build more discriminating strategies 
around small cap stocks that can make money, but that will 
require again bringing something else to the equation that is 
not being tracked or priced in by the market already.
