Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/FedDelusions.pdf

FED UP WITH FED TALK? CENTRAL 
BANKS AND INTEREST RATES –
FAIRY TALES AND FACTS
The Fed did it!
2
The Fed acts (finally)…
¨The big story on Wednesday, September 18, was that the 
Federal Reserve’s open market committee finally got around 
to “cutting rates”,  a n ddoing so by more than expected. 
¨This action, much debated and discussed during all of 2024, 
was greeted as big news, and market prognosticators argued 
that it was a harbinger of big market moves, both in interest 
rates and stock prices. 
¨The market seemed to initially be disappointed in the action, 
dropping after the Fed’s announcement on Wednesday, but it 
did climb on Thursday. 
¨As a long-time skeptic about the Fed’s (or any Central Bank’s) 
capacity to alter much more than talk, I decided now would 
be as good a time as any to confront some widely held beliefs 
about central banking powers, and counter them with data.
3
Myths about the Fed (frommostfantastic
toleast)…
¨The Fed as rate setter: In this myth, the Fed (or central 
banks) set the interest rates that we encounter as 
consumers and businesses in ourday-to-dayaffairs.
¨The Fed as rate leader: In this one, theFed may not 
directly set rates, but its actions determine the future 
course of interest rates.
¨TheFedas signalman: The Fed, with its superior access 
to data, sends signals to markets, which then determines 
their next moves.
¨The Fed as stock market whisperer: The Fed, in this 
myth, whispers to stock markets (with its actions), and 
they behave accordingly.
4
1. The Fed as Rate Setter
¨As I drove to the grocery story on Fed Cut Wednesday, I had 
the radio on, and in the news at the top of the hour, I was 
told that the Fed had just cut interest rates, implying that 
consumers would soon see lower rates on their mortgages 
and businesses on their loan. 
¨That delusion is not restricted to newscasters, since it seems 
to be widely held among politicians, economists and even 
market watchers.
¨The truth, though, is that the Fed sets only one interest rate, 
the Fed Funds rate, and that none of the rates that we face 
in our lives, either as consumers (on mortgages, credit cards 
or fixed deposits) or businesses (business loans and bonds), 
face interest rates that are set by or even indexed to the Fed 
Funds Rate.
5
The Fed Funds Rate
¨The place to start to dispel the “Fed sets rates” myth is 
with an understanding of the Fed Funds rate,an 
overnight intra-bank borrowing rate is one that most of 
us will never ever encounter in our lives. 
¨The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) has the 
power to change this rate, which it uses at intervals, in 
response to economic, market and political 
developments.
¤Inmostcases,theratechangescomeatone of the eight 
regularly scheduled FOMC meetings.
¤In a few cases, the rate changes come after emergency 
meetings, usually in response to a crisis (2001, 2008, 2020)
6
A History of Fed Action (and Inaction)
7
The Effective Fed Funds Rate
8
Market-set Rates
9
Institution-set Rates
10
2. The Fed as Rate Leader
¨Even if you accept that the Fed does not set the 
interest rates that we face as consumers and 
businesses, you may still believe that the Fed 
influences these rates with these changes. 
¨Thus, in your world, a rise (fall) in the Fed Funds rate 
will trigger subsequent rises (falls) in both market-
set and institution-set rates.
¨TheFed,withitssuperiordataandskills, is the 
market leader in this world, at least when it comes 
to interest rates.
11
The Superficial Backing…
12
A Better Test: Fed Funds Rate Changes & 
Market Interest Rate
13
Fed Funds Rate Changes and Other 
Interest Rates
14
But the Fed kept interest rates low last 
decade, right?
15
3. The Fed as Signalman
¨ IfyouarewillingtoacceptthattheFeddoesnotsetrates,
andthatitdoesnotleadthemarketoninterestrates,you
maystillarguethatFedratechangesconveyinformationto
markets,thatmayleadthemtorepricebondsandstocks.
¨ItisundeniablethattheFederalReserve,withitstwelve
regionaldistrictsactingasoutposts,collectsdataaboutthe
economythatbecomeaninputintoitsdecisionmaking.Itis
signaling,withitsFedFundratechanges,whatithaslearned
fromthatdata.
¨Thatsaid,therearetwomajormacroeconomicdimensions
onwhichtheFedcollectsdata,withthefirstbeingreal
economicgrowth(howrobustitis,andwhetherthereare
changeshappening)andinflation(howhighitisandwhether
ittooischanging).
16
The Signals in the Fed Rate Cut
¨YoucanseethattherearetwocontraryreadsoftheFedFundsrate
cutof50basispointsonWednesdays.
¤Ifyouareanoptimist,youcouldtakethattomeanthattheFedisfinally
convincedthatinflationhasbeenvanquished,andthatlowerinflationis
heretostay.
¤Ifyouareapessimist,thefactthatitwasafiftybasispointdecrease,
ratherthantheexpectedtwentyfivebasispoints,canbeconstruedasa
signthattheFedisseeingmoreworryingsignsofaneconomicslowdown
thanhaveshownupinthepublicdataonemploymentandgrowth.
¤Thereisofcoursethecynicalthirdperspective,whichisthattheFedrate
cuthaslittletodowithinflationandrealgrowth,andmoretodowithan
electionthatislessthanfiftydaysaway.
¨ Insum,signalingstoriesarealluring,andyouwillheartheminthe
comingdays,fromallsidesofthespectrum(optimists,pessimists
andcynics),butthetruthliesinthemiddle,wherethisratecutis
goodnews,badnewsandnonewsatthesametime.
17
4. The Fed as Equity Market Whisperer
¨It is entirely possible that you are with me so far, in my 
arguments that the Fed's capacity to influence the 
interest rates that matter is limited, but you may still 
hold on to the belief that the Fed's actions have 
consequences for stock returns. 
¨In fact, Wall Street has its share of investing mantras, 
including "Don't fight the Fed", where the implicit 
argument is that the direction of the stock market can be 
altered by Fed actions.
¨There is some basis for this argument, and especially 
during market crises, where timely actions by the Fed 
may alter market mood and momentum.
18
In non-crises periods, the Fed’s effect on 
stock prices is…
Aswath Damodaran
18
If you remove the Fed's role in crises, andfocus on just its 
actions on the Fed Funds rate, the effect of the Fed on equity 
market becomes murkier .
19
The Reality: The Fed as Chanticleer…
¨ ThereisanancientstoryaboutaroosternamedChanticleer.Chanticleerwas
anointedtherulerofthefarmyardthathelivedin,becausetheother
barnyardanimalsbelievedthatitwashiscrowingeverymorningthatcaused
thesuntorise,andthatwithouthim,theywouldbedestinedforalifetimeof
darkness.Thatbeliefcamefromtheundeniablefactthateverymorning,
Chanticleer'scrowscoincidedwithsunriseanddaylight.Thestorynowtakes
adarkturn,whenoneday,Chanticleersleepsinandthesunrisesanyway,
revealinghisabsenceofpower.
¨ TheFed(andeveryothercentralbank)inmyviewislikeChanticleer,with
investorsendowingitwithpowerstosetinterestratesanddrivestockprices,
sincetheFed'sactionsandmarketmovementsseemsynchronized.
¤ AswithChanticleer,thetruthisthattheFedisactinginresponsetochangesinmarketsrather
thandrivingthoseactions,anditisthusmorefollowerthanleader.
¤ Thatsaid,thereistheveryrealpossibilitythattheFedmaystarttobelieveitsownhype,and
thathubristiccentralbankersmaydecidethattheysetratesanddrivestockmarkets,rather
thantheotherwayaround.
20
The Fed Delusion: Time to let go?
¨Iknowthatthispostcutsagainstthegrain,sincethenotionthattheFed
hassuperpowershasonlybecomestrongeroverthelasttwodecades.
Pushedtoexplainwhyinterestrateswereathistoriclowsformuchofthe
lastdecade,theresponseyouoftenheardwas"theFeddidit".
¤Activeinvestors,whenaskedwhyactiveinvestinghaditsworstdecadeinhistory,
losingouttoindexfundsandtopassiveinvestors,pointedfingerstheFed.
¤Markettimers,whohadbuilttheirreputationsaroundusingmetricsliketheShiller
PE,defendedtheirfailuretocallmarketmovesinthelastfifteenyears,bypointing
totheFed.
¤Economistswhoarguedthatinvertedyieldcurveswereasurefirepredictorof
recessionsblamedtheFedfortheabsenceofarecession,afteryearsoftwoyears
plusofthephenomena.Howconvenient?
¨IbelievethatitistimeforustoputtheFeddelusiontorest.Ithas
distractedusfromtalkingaboutthingsthattrulymatter,whichinclude
growinggovernmentdebt,inflation,growthandhowglobalizationmaybe
feedingintorisk,andallowedustobelievethatcentralbankershavethe
powertorescueusfromwhatevermistakeswemaybemaking.
