Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2020.pdf

DATA UPDATE 2 FOR 2020: A 
RETROSPECTIVE ON A DECADE 
(2010-19)
Change is the only constant!
2
A Decade in the Rear View Mirror: 2010-
2019
¨ It was a testing period for many active investors, and 
particularly so for value investors, who found that 
even as financial assets posted solid returns, what 
they thought were tried and true approaches to 
"beating the market" seemed to lose their power . 
¨ In addition, trust in mean reversion, i.e., that things 
would go back to historic norms was shaken as 
interest rates remained low for much of the period 
and PE ratios rose above historical averages and 
continued to rise, rather than fall back.
3
1. A Good Year for Stocks & Bonds
4
More on stocks and bonds in 2019 …
¨ Over the 92 years that are in this historical assessment,2019 
ranked as the sixteenth best yearand second only to 2013 
(annual return of 32.15%) in this century. 
¨ While stocks have garnered the bulk of the attention for 
having a good year, bonds were not slackers in the returns 
game. In 2019, the ten-year US treasury bond returned 9.64% 
and ten-year Baa corporate bonds weighing in with a 15.33% 
return.   The bulk of these returns came from price 
appreciation, as the US treasury bond rate declined from 
2.69% to 1.92%, and the corporate bonds also benefited from 
a decline in default spreads (the price of risk in the bond 
market) during the year .
5
Putting 2010-19 in perspective…
6
a. Historical Equity Risk Premium 
(updated)
If you trust history (I don’t):
Expected return on stocks in 2020 = T.Bond Rate + 
Historical ERP = 1.92% + 4.83% = 6.75%
Expected price appreciation on stocks = Expected Return 
- Dividend yield = 6.75%- 1.82% = 4.93%
7
b. Stocks don’t always win in the long 
term..
¨ The fact that stocks have beaten treasury and corporate 
bonds by wide margins historically is often the sales pitch 
used to push investors to allocate more of their savings to 
stocks, with the argument being that stocks always win in the 
long term. The data should yield cautionary notes. 
¤ First, in three decades out of the nine in the table, stocks under-
performed bonds and treasury bills, and if your response is that ten 
years is not a long enough time period, you may want to check the 
actuarial tables. 
¤ Second, there is a selection bias in our use of the US markets for 
computing the historical premium. Looking across the globe, the US 
was one of the most successful equity markets of the last century and 
using it may be skewing our results upwards. Put bluntly, if you had 
invested in the Nikkei at the height of its climb in the 1980s, you would 
still be struggling to get back the money you lost, when the Japanese 
markets collapsed.
8
c. Market Timing
¨ It is human nature to try to time markets, and some investors make it 
the central focus of their investment philosophies. The historical 
return data gives us a sense of both the upside and the downside of 
doing so. 
¤ In terms of pluses, an investor who was able to avoid the doomed decades (when stocks 
earned less than T. B i l l sand T. B o n d s) would be comfortably ahead of an investor who did 
not, if he or she stayed fully invested in the remaining decades . 
¤ In terms of minuses, if the market timing investor failed to stay invested in stocks in the 
good decades, the opportunity costs would quickly overwhelm the benefits. 
¨ In the last decade, there were many investors who believed that a 
correction was around the corner, driven by their perception that 
interest rates were being kept artificially low by central banks and that 
they would revert to historic norms quickly. When that reversion did 
not occur, these investors paid a hefty price in returns foregone.
9
2. A Low Interest Rate Decade
10
And Central Banks were only partly 
responsible…
11
3. A Tech Decade
12
And FAANG stocks stole the show…
13
4. Old Patterns, New Markets?
¨ One of the perils of being in a market like the US, where 
rich historical data is available and easily accessible is 
that analysts and academics have pored over the data 
and not surprisingly found patterns that have very 
quickly become part of investment lore.
¨ Thus, we have been told that value beats growth, at 
least over long periods, and that small cap stocks earn a 
premium, and have converted these findings into 
investing strategies and valuation practices. 
¨ While it is dangerous to use a decade’s results to 
abandon a long history, the last decade offered sobering 
counters to old investing nostrums.
14
a. Value versus Growth – History
15
Across the decades…
16
b. The Size Premium
17
Across the decades…
18
5. The Decade’s Buzz Words
¨ Every decade has its buzzwords, words that not only 
become the focus for companies but are also money 
makers for consultants, and the last decade was no 
exception. There were two that stood out to me in 
the last decade: 
¤ The first was big data, driven partly by more extensive 
collection of information, especially online, and partly by 
tools that allowed this data to be accessed and analyzed. 
¤ The other was crowd wisdom, where expert opinions were 
replaced by crowd judgments on a wide range of 
applications, from restaurant reviews to new (crypto) 
currencies.
¨
19
a. Big Data
¨ The success of the FAANG stocks and the perception that 
a big reason for their success is the data that they have 
collected on their users has led other companies to 
invest heavily in big data.
¨ Like all buzz words, big data has been over sold. In 
particular, for big data to create value:
¤ The data has to be exclusive: For data to be valuable, there has 
to be some exclusivity. Put simply, if everyone has it, no one has 
an advantage. 
¤ The data has to be useful in changing business offerings: For 
value conversion to occur, the data that has been collected has 
to be usable in modifying and adapting the products and 
services you offer as a business.
20
b. Crowd Wisdom
¨ One of the consequences of the 2008 crisis was a loss in faith 
in both institutional authorities but also in experts, most of 
whom had been hopelessly wrong in the lead up to the crisis.  
It is therefore not surprising that you saw a move towards 
trusting crowds.  
¨ It is no coincidence that Satoshi Nakamoto (whoever he 
might be) posted the paper laying out the architecture of 
Bitcoin in November 2008, a proposal for a digital currency 
without a central bank or regulatory overlay, where 
transactions would be crowd-checked (by miners).  While 
Bitcoin has been more successful as a speculative game than 
as a currency during the last decade, the block chains that it 
introduced have now found their way into a much wider 
range of businesses.
21
Crowd wisdom and madness!
¨ The crowd concept has expanded into almost every 
aspect of our lives, with Yelp ratings replacing restaurant 
reviewers in our choices of where to eat, Rotten 
Tomatoes supplanting movie critics in deciding what to 
watch and betting markets replacing polls in predicting 
election outcomes. 
¨ I share the distrust of experts that many others have, but 
I also wary of crowd wisdom. After all, financial markets 
have been laboratories for observing how crowds 
behave for centuries, and we have found that while 
crowds are often much better at gauging the right 
answers than market gurus and experts, they are also 
prone to herding and collective bad choices.
22
The Decade to Come
¨ Study the past: It has been said that those who forget 
the past are destined to relive it, and that is one reason 
why we pore over historical track records, hoping to get 
insight for the future. 
¨ But don’t try to relive it: It has also been said that army 
generals who prepare too intensely to fight the last war 
will lose the next one, suggesting that reading too much 
into history can be dangerous. 
¨ Be adaptable & keep learning: Keep an open mind and 
do not take conventional wisdom as a given. I don’t 
know what the next decade will bring us, but I can 
guarantee you that it will not look like the last one or any 
of the prior ones,
