Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2026.pdf

Danger + Opportunity = Risk
2
§In my first four posts, I looked at markets -equity, debt and 
collectibles -in the aggregate performed in 2025. 
§In this session, I turn my attention to divergences in risk 
across companies, looking at alternative measures of risk, 
some based on prices and others at earnings
§I also look at how these differences play out in hurdle rates, 
a necessary ingredient for businesses trying to determine 
whether and how much to invest in individual projects and for 
investors making that same judgment, when looking at 
companies.
3
§For a concept that is so central to investing and corporate 
finance as risk, it is astonishing how much divergence there 
is across even finance experts and academics on what it is, 
and consequently on how to measure it.  
§I have heard some describe it as uncertainty, essentially 
substituting one fuzzy word for another, othersastheriskof
(large) lossand still others more generally as bad outcomes. 
§If you have taken a finance class, and I confess to having a part 
in this, you may define risk as volatility or standard deviation, 
or even bring Greek alphabets into play.
4
§My favorite definition of risk and one that I start my corporate 
finance class with is that Chinese symbol for crisis or big 
risk:
§The first of the two symbols is the one for danger and the 
second is a symbol for opportunity. In effect, by bunding 
together danger and opportunity, the risk measure captures 
how risk both attracts (to get to opportunity) and repels (with 
the threat of danger).
§It explains why avoiding risk is generally not a good 
business strategy and nor is a reckless pursuit of 
opportunity.
5
1. Upside versus Downside: If you start with a generic definition 
of risk as receiving an outcome that is different from what your 
expectation, it is worth recognizing that some of these outcomes 
will be positive (better than expected) and some will be 
negative (worse than expected), and that it is the latter than 
investors and businesses dislike. 
2. Price-based versus accounting-based: Risk measures that are 
based upon data can be built on market prices, for publicly 
traded firms, or on accounting data, especially earnings. Price-
based measures have the advantage of constant updating, 
giving you more data, but are sometimes contaminated by the 
noise and volatility that come from trading. Accounting 
measures yield more stability, but since they are updated 
infrequently, and accounting smooths changes over time, they 
can offer stale or distorted values.
3. Total versus Non-diversifiable: The risk in an investment, 
whether a project or a business, can come from many different 
sources, but some of the risks are more investment-specific 
whereas others are market-wide:
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
§To run a business or invest in one, you need hurdle rates, and 
that is what costs of equity and debt should be measuring.
§While models and equations may be how you get these 
numbers, it is always worth going back to first principles, 
whenever you face questions on what to do. 
§As we enter 2026, we are now in our fourth year with US dollar 
riskfree rates around 4%, and companies and investors seem to 
have become acclimatized to the resulting costs of capital, and 
the shock of seeing dollar riskfree rates surge in 2022, 
pushing up costs of capital across the board seem to have 
faded.
