Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/MagSeven.pdf

THE SEVEN SAMURAI: THE 
STOCKS THAT SAVED THE 
MARKET!
A trillion here, a trillion there..
2
A hat tip to Kurosawa!
¨I was planning to finish my last two data updates for 
2024, butdecided to take a break and look at the seven 
stocks (Apple, Amazon, Alphabet, Meta, Microsoft, 
Nvidia and Tesla) which carried the market in 2023. 
¨While I will use the "Magnificent Seven" moniker 
attached by these companies by investors and the 
media, my preference would have been to call them the 
Seven Samurai. 
¨After all, like their namesakes in thatlegendary 
Kurosawa movie, who saved a village and its inhabitants 
from destruction, these seven stocks saved investors 
from having back-to-back disastrous years in the stock 
market.
3
The What?
¨It is worth remembering that the Magnificent Seven (MAG 7) 
had their beginnings in the FANG (Facebook, Amazon, Netflix 
and Google) stocks, in the middle of the last decade.
¨That morphed into the FANGAM (with the addition of Apple 
and Microsoft to the group) and then to the MAG 7, with the 
removal of Netflix from the mix, and the addition of Tesla and 
Nvidia to the group. 
¨There is clearly hindsight bias in play here, since bringing in 
the best performing stocks of a period into a group can 
always create groups that has supernormal historical returns. 
That bias notwithstanding, these seven companies have been 
extraordinary investments, not just in 2023, but over the last 
decade, and there are lessons that we can learn from looking 
at the past.
4
In 2023…
5
From2012to2023…
6
The Cost of not holding the Mag Seven
7
Exception ortheNorm?
¨In all ofthe breathless coverage of the Mag Seven (and FANG 
and FANGAM) before it, there seems to be the implicit belief 
that their market dominance is unprecedented, but it is not. 
¨In fact, equitymarkets have almost always owed their success 
to their biggest winners, and Henrik Bessimbinderhighlighted 
this reality by documenting that of the $47 trillion in increase 
in market capitalization between 1926 and 2019, five 
companies accounted for 22% of the increase in market 
value. 
¨I will wager that at the end of the next decade, looking back, 
we will find that a few companies accounted for the bulk of 
the rise in market capitalization during the decade, and 
another acronym will be created..
8
The Why?
¨When stocks soar as much as the Mag Seven stocks have 
in recent years, they evoke two responses. 
¤One is obviously regret on the part of those who did not partake 
in the rise, orsold too soon. 
¤The other is skepticism, and a sense that a correction is overdue, 
leading to what I call knee-jerk contrarianism, where your 
argument that these stocks are over pricedis that they have 
gone up too much in the past. With these stocks, in particular, 
thatreaction would have been costly over much of the last 
decade, since other than in 2022, these stocks have found ways 
to deliver positive surprises. 
¨Understanding why a group of companies outperformed 
the market is not just good for understanding, butcan 
help us assess whether they can keep winning.
9
1. Correction/Momentum Story
10
2. PayofftoBusiness Models
¨ Pricing power and Economic Resilience: Coming into 2023, there were real 
concerns about whether the big tech companies that had dominated markets 
for the prior decade had pricing power and how well they would weather a 
recession. During the course of2023, the Mag Seven set those fears to rest at 
least for the moment on both dimensions, increasing prices (with the exception of
Tesla) on  th eir p rod u cts/ser vices an d  d eliverin g grow th . 
• MoneyMachines:Thepricingpowerandproductdemandresilienceexhibitedby
thesecompanieshavemanifestedasstrongearningsforthecompanies.Infact,
bothAlphabetandMetahavelaidoffthousandsofemployees,withoutdenting
revenues,andthereprofitsin2023reflectthecostsavings:
• SafetyBuffers:Asinterestrates,forbothgovernmentsandcorporates,hasrisen
sharplyoverthelasttwoyears,itisprudentforinvestorstoworryabout
companieswithlargedebtburdens,sinceolddebtonthebooks,atlowrates,will
havetogetrefinancedathigherrates.WiththeMagSeven,thoseconcernsareon
thebackburner ,becausethesecompanieshavedebtloadssolowthattheyare
almostnon-existent.
11
a. Pricing Power
12
b. Profitability
13
c. Safety Buffers
14
3. Winner-take-all Economics
¨It is undeniable that as the global economy has shifted away from its 
manufacturing base in the last century to a technology base, it has 
unleashed more "winner-take-all (or most" dynamics in many industries. 
¤In advertising, which was a splintered business where even the biggest players 
(newspapers, broadcasting companies) commanded small market shares of the 
overall market, Alphabet and Meta have acquired dominant market shares of 
online advertising, driven by easy scaling and network benefits (where advertising 
flows to the platforms with the most customers). 
¤Over the last two decades, Amazon has set in motion similar dynamics in retail and 
Microsoft's stranglehold on application and business software has been in existence 
even longer . 
¤In fact, it is the two newcomers into this group, Nvidia and Tesla, where questions 
remain about what the end game will look like, in terms of market share. 
Historically, neither the chip nor car businesses have been winner-take-all 
businesses, but investors are clearly pricing in the possibility that the changing 
economics of AI chips and electric cars could alter these businesses.
15
What’s next?
16
Intrinsic Valuations
17
Assessing Value…
Aswath Damodaran
¨WhileallofthecompaniesintheMagSevenhave
valuesthatexceedtheirprices,TeslaandMetalook
closetofairlyvalued,atcurrentprices,Alphabet,
AppleandAmazonarewithinshoutingdistanceand
MicrosoftandNvidialookovervalued,withthe
latterstandingoutasmoreso.
¨Itmaybecoincidence,butthesearethetwo
companiesthathavebenefitedmostdirectlyfrom
theAIbuzz,andmyovervaluationmayreflectmy
lackofimaginationonhowbigAIcangetasa
business.
18
And Acting..
Aswath Damodaran
¨Iownallsevenofthesecompanies,whichmaystrikeyouascontradictory,
butwiththeexceptionofTeslathatIboughtjustlastweek,my
acquisitionsoftheothersevencompaniesoccurredwellinthepast,and
reflectedmyjudgmentthattheywereundervalued(atthetime).
¨TothequestionofwhetherIshouldbeselling,whichwouldbeconsistent
withmycurrentassessmentthatthesestocksareovervalued,Ihesitate
fortworeasons:
¤Iwillhavetoacapitalgainstaxthatwillamounttocloseto30%,withstatetaxes
includedandthereisarangeonmyvalue,andonlyoneofthesesevencompanies
(Nvidia)isclearlyoutofthatrange.
¤Thesecondispsychological,sincesellingeverythingornothingwouldleaveme
withregretseitherway.Lastsummer,whenIvaluedNvidiainthispost,Ifoundit
overvaluedatapriceof$450,andsoldhalfmyholdings,choosingtoholdthe
otherhalf.Nowthatthepricehashit$680,IamhappythatIdidnotsellallofmy
holdings,butIplantoseehalfmyholdingsagain.
19
Wrapping up…
¨As I noted at the start of this post, the benefit of hindsight allows us to 
pick the biggest winners in the market, bundle them together in a group 
and then argue that the market would be lost without them. 
¨That is true, but it is neither original nor unique to this market. The Mag 
Seven stocks have had a great run, but their pricing now reflects, in my 
view, the fact that they are special companies, with business models that 
deliver growth, at scale, with profitability. 
¨If you have never owned any of these companies, your portfolio will 
reflect that choice, and while jumping on to the bandwagon now will not 
make up for that failure, you should bide your time. 
¨It is my experience that even the very best companies deliver 
disappointments, and that markets overreact to these disappointments, 
simply because expectations have been set so high. It is precisely at those 
times that you will find that the price is right!
