Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/FoundationsOnline/postclass/session2test.pdf

Session	2:	Post	Class	tests	
1. In	a	financial	balance	sheet,	we	break	the	assets	of	a	business	down	into 
assets	in	place	and	growth	assets.	Which	of	the	following	is	the	best	way	of 
estimating	the	value	of	asset	in	place?
a. Accounting	book	value	of	assets
b. Market	capitalization	of	the	company
c. Enterprise	value	of	the	company	(Market	capitalization	+	Debt	–	Cash)
d. Applying	a	multiple	(like	EV/EBITDA)	to	current	EBITDA
e. A	discounted	cash	flow	valuation	of	the	company	with	no	growth
2. In	a	financial	balance	sheet,	we	break	the	assets	of	a	business	down	into 
assets	in	place	and	growth	assets.	Which	of	the	following	statements	best 
describes	the	value	of	growth	assets?
a. The	value	of	growth	assets	will	always	be	greater	than	zero
b. Companies	that	reinvest	more	(take	more	investments)	will	have	a 
higher	value	for	growth	assets
c. Companies	that	earn	a	high	return	on	capital	will	have	more	valuable 
growth	assets
d. Companies	that	reinvest	more	and	earn	a	high	return	on	capital	on 
those	investments	will	have	a	higher	value	for	growth	assets
e. Companies	that	have	high	expected	growth	in	earnings/revenues	will 
have	a	higher	value	for	growth	assets
3. A	company	has	two	choices	when	it	comes	to	funding	its	assets,	debt	and 
equity.	Which	of	the	following	companies	are	more	likely	to	use	debt?
a. Money	making	companies	will	borrow	more	than	money	losing 
companies
b. Companies	that	are	more	valuable	(have	higher	value)	will	borrow 
more.
c. Companies	that	derive	the	bulk	of	their	value	from	assets	in	place	and 
have	positive	earnings	will	borrow	more
d. Companies	that	derive	the	bulk	of	their	value	from	growth	assets	and 
have	positive	earnings	will	borrow	more
4. In	a	corporate	life	cycle,	we	look	at	where	firms	fall	in	the	life	cycle	from 
start-up	(baby)	to	decline	and	distress	(old	age).	Which	of	the	following 
financial	characteristics	would	you	expect	to	see	in	young	companies?
a. Mostly	growth	assets,	primarily	equity	funded,	high	dividends
b. Mostly	assets	in	place,	primarily	equity	funded,	no/low	dividends
c. Mostly	growth	assets,	primarily	equity	funded,	no/low	dividends
d. Mostly	growth	assets,	more	debt	funded,	no/low	dividends
e. Mostly	growth	assets,	more	debt	funded,	high	dividends
5. In	a	corporate	life	cycle,	we	look	at	where	firms	fall	in	the	life	cycle	from 
start-up	(baby)	to	decline	and	distress	(old	age).	Which	of	the	following 
financial	characteristics	would	you	expect	to	see	in	mature	companies?
a. Mostly	assets	in	place,	primarily	equity	funded,	high	dividends
b. Mostly	assets	in	place,	primarily	equity	funded,	no/low	dividends
c. Mostly	assets	in	place,	primarily	equity	funded,	no/low	dividends
d. Mostly	assets	in	place,	more	debt	funded,	no/low	dividends	
e. Mostly	assets	in	place,	more	debt	funded,	high	dividends
