Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate6for2018.pdf

COST OF CAPITAL PRIMER: 
JANUARY 2018 DATA UPDATE 6
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Cost of Capital as Swiss Army Knife
¨ In corporate finance, it is not only the cost of raising 
funding for a business but also the hurdle rate to use 
in capital budgeting and an optimizing tool for 
capital structure & dividend policy. 
¨ In valuation, it is the discount rate that we use to 
value a business, and the primary mechanism to 
bring in the risk of a business into its value.
¨ Along the way, it picks up a variety of other names 
that are used to describe it and gets confused or 
used interchangeably with the cost of equity and the 
cost of debt.
3
The Problem with the “Cost of Funding” 
Definition
¨ It is unfortunate that the name that we have 
attached to this ubiquitous number is the cost of 
capital, since it seems to suggest that it is the cost of 
raising funding for a company. 
¨ While that definition may sometimes fit, it often 
leads to destructive consequences, where 
companies that are safe and can borrow money at 
low rates (and hence have a low cost of funding) 
think that they are adding value when they go out 
and take risky investments that earn more than that 
cost.
4
The Cost of Capital – A Healthier Definition
¨ A healthier definition of the cost of capital is to think of 
it as an opportunity cost, i.e., a rate of return that you 
(as an investor or by extension, a company that the 
investor has put money in) can make on an investment 
of equivalent risk. 
¨ The key words in this definition are "equivalent risk", 
because that effectively eliminates the subsidy mistake 
that occurs when a safe company’s cost of capital is used 
to justify taking a risky investment. 
¨ This is, of course, one of the first principles of finance 
and it is astonishing that it is open for debate and that so 
many companies violate it, in their practices.
5
Manifestations of Violations (of Cost of 
Capital first principles)
1. Many multi-business companies continue to have a "single" hurdle rate in 
capital budgeting: In a survey of "best" practices across companies and advisors, 
the authors note that almost half of all companies (and advisors) surveyed used 
a single cost of capital across all investments. 
2. In acquisitions, it is routine for companies (and bankers) to use the acquiring 
company's cost of capital to value the target company: Thee logic being that it is 
the acquiring firm that raises the capital and that its costs will lead safe firms to 
find any risky firm that they look at to be cheap is glossed over .
3. Cash is viewed as a value destroying asset: Cash and short term investments, it 
has to be invested in liquid and close to riskless assets, earning extraordinarily 
low returns. There are analysts, and I use the word loosely, who compare the 
returns generated on cash to the cost of capital of the firm to conclude that 
cash is a value-destroying asset.
4. A company that earns a higher return on its projects (higher ROIC) should be 
valued more highly than a company that earns a lower return on its projects: 
Without controlling for risk, this is not true.
6
The Cost of Capital – Estimation Set Up
7
Cost of Equity – Standard Model
Aswath Damodaran
7
The Rate of Return required by your stockholders, given the 
risk that they perceive in your equity.
8
Cost of Equity- An Alternative
¨ Agnostic about models: For those who are truly 
disturbed my the CAPM's limitations, there is an 
alternative approach worth considering that is agnostic 
in its assumptions about investor diversification and risk 
aversion. 
¨ Implied Cost of Equity: It is to back out the "implied" cost 
of equity for stocks within a sector and to use that 
implied number as the cost of equity in individual 
companies. 
¤ Take the implied equity risk premium for the S&P 500 in my 
second data post from a couple of weeks ago and consider 
extending that approach to the banking index, to get an implied 
cost of equity for banks, and the energy sector, to estimate the 
cost of equity for oil companies.
9
Cost of Debt
¨ It is the rate at which a firm can borrow money, long term, today. 
¤ Pre-tax cost of debt = Risk free Rate+ Default Spread for the Company
¨ To estimate the default spread, you can use one of three 
approaches, in order of ease.
¤ Use the interest rate on the bond as your pre-tax cost of debt for the firm 
since it is a current, market-set rate.
¤ If a firm has corporate bonds and they are not traded ate, you can use the 
bond rating for the company to estimate a default spread.
¤ You can assess a "synthetic rating" for the company, based upon the 
strength of its financials and its capacity to repay debt.
¨ To bring the tax benefit of debt into the after-tax cost of debt, you 
should use the marginal tax rate, since interest expenses save you 
taxes at the margin:
¤ After-tax cost of debt = (Risk free Rate+ Default Spread) (1- Marginal Tax 
Rate)
10
Weights on Debt and Equity
¨ Market or Book: This choice, at least for me, is an easy one. 
The cost of capital is a proxy for what it will cost you to raise 
money to fund the investment or project in question today, 
and since you can raise money only at market value, it is the 
only relevant number .
¨ Current or Target: It is true that the debt ratio for a company 
can change over time, and if management does have a target, 
the actual debt ratio may move to the target. Unless this 
change is instantaneous, it is likely to occur over time and my 
answer to the question is to use the current debt ratio to 
estimate the cost of capital at the start of the investment and 
as the debt ratio is changed over time to the optimal, to 
change the cost of capital as well.
11
Estimation Choices
Estimation Approach used Possible limitations
Risk Free Rate US T.B o n dRate Cost of equity estimated in US dollars.
Beta
Started with unlevered beta for sector (using global 
averages) & levered up using company's D/E 
(including leases as debt ). 
Used only the primary business that the company was 
in. With multi -business companies, I am missing the 
effect of oither businesses on beta.
ERP 
ERP of country that the company is incorporated in. If company operates in other countries, the ERP should 
be a weighted average.
Default Spread
Used bond rating, if available, to estimate the default 
spread. Used interest coverage ratio to estimate 
ratings and default spread, otherwise.
Interest coverage ratios may not capture default risk 
fully, Bringing in other ratios might have provided more 
refined estimate.
Marginal tax rate
Use the statutory tax rate of the country in which the 
company is incorporated.
If company operates in many countries, it may be able to 
place its debt in a country with the higher marginal tax 
rae.
Weights
Current market value of equity and debt (including 
leases) used for weights.
Insufficient information to estimate market value of 
interest-bearing debt.
12
Cost of Capital – Going Concern versus 
Truncation Risk
A DCF is a going-concern concept where we either assume that 
the firm is going forever or that is has a scheduled and orderly 
liquidation.
You have to estimate the likelihood of the truncation (distress, 
nationalization) will happen and what you will receive if it 
happens.
13
Cost of Capital – Importance of 
Perspective
¨ Rules of thumb: The cost of capital discussion is permeated with 
rules of thumb about what comprises a reasonable, high or low 
number, many developed in a different time and for a different 
market. 
¨ Skew values: These rules of thumb skew estimates, since analysts 
feel the urge to adjust the costs of capitals that they get from 
models or metrics to match their preconceptions about what they 
should be. 
¨ Build up? It is my primary objection to the build-up approach, 
where analysts add multiple premiums to arrive at a cost of capital 
that matches what they would have liked to see in the first place. It 
is to counter this temptation that I will compute costs of capital for 
US and global companies and present both sector averages as well 
as the entire distributions for the market.
14
A US Cost of Capital – January 2018
¨ To provide perspective on what the cost of capital for the 
median US company will look like, start with the US 10-year 
T. Bo n drate of 2.41% on January 1, 2018, as the risk free rate 
and my estimate of the implied ERP of 5.08% for the US on 
the same date. 
¨ For an average risk stock, with a beta of one, that would 
translate into a cost of equity of 7.49%. 
¨ Bringing in the debt ratio of 23.51% for the typical US firm 
and a pre-tax cost of debt of 3.91% (1.5% higher than the risk 
free rate), results in a cost of capital of 6.43%, if we use the 
marginal tax rate of 24%, post tax reform:
Cost of capital for median US firm = (2.41%+5.08%)(1-
.2351)+3.91%(1-.24) (.2351) = 6.43%
15
Cost of Capital: Sector Differences in US
16
Cost of Capital – US (Histogram)
17
A Global Cost of Capital
¨ I estimate the costs of capital for global companies, in 
US dollars, and using the same template that I use for 
the US. There are a few key differences. 
¤ I shift from using the US ERP of 5.08% to a GDP-weighted global 
average ERP of 6.20%.
¤ From a US-average debt ratio of 23.51% to to a global-average 
debt to capital ratio of 26.67%, from a pre-tax cost of debt of 
3.91% to 4.91% (reflecting country default risk) 
¤ From a marginal tax rate of 24% to a weighted average of 
24.63%. The resulting cost of capital for a median global firm is 
higher than for the US:
n Cost of capital for median global firm = (2.41%+6.20%)(1-
.2667)+4.91%(1-.2463) (.2667) = 7.30%
18
Cost of Capital: Sector Differences Globally
19
Cost of Capital – Global (Histogram)
