Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Nvidia2024.pdf

THE POWER OF EXPECTATI0NS: 
NVIDIA’S EARNINGS AND THE 
MARKET’S REACTION!
The expectations game!
2
The Lead In
¨LastWednesday(August28),themarketwaitedwithbatedbreath
forNvidia’searningcall,scheduledforafterthemarketclosed.
¨Thatcall,atfirstsight,containedgoodnews,withrevenuesand
earningscominginaboveexpectations,butthestockfellinthe
aftermath,withthestockdown8%inThursday’stradingand
continuingitsdeclineinthefollowingdays.
¨Thisdancebetweencompaniesandinvestors,playingoutin
expectationsandactualearnings,andafeatureofeveryearnings
season,especiallysointheUnitedStates,hasalwaysfascinated
me.
¨Inthissession,IwillusetheNvidiaearningsreleasetoexamine
whatnews,ifany,iscontainedinearningsreportsandhowtraders
andinvestorsusethatnewstoreframetheirthinkingaboutstocks.
3
Earnings Releases
¨When I was first exposed to financial markets in a 
classroom, I was taught about information being 
delivered to markets, where that information is 
processed and converted into prices. 
¨I was fascinated by the process, and it was the subject of 
my doctoral thesis, on how distortions in information 
delivery (delays, lies, mistakes) affects stock returns. 
¨In the real world, that fascination has led me to pay 
attention to earnings reports, which while overplayed, 
remain the primary mechanism for companies to convey 
information about their performance and prospects to 
markets.
4
1. The Timing
¨TheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934requiredannualandquarterly
reportsfrompubliclytradedcompaniesbemadeinatimelymanner,with
a1946stipulationtheannualfilingsbeingmadewithin90daysofthe
fiscalyear-end,andthequarterlyreportswithin45calendardaysofthe
quarterlydayend.
¨Ifyoucouplethetimingregularityincompanyfilingswiththefactthat
almost65%oflistedcompanieshavefiscalyearsthatcoincidewith
calendaryears,itshouldcomeasnosurprisethatearningsreportstend
togetbunchedupatcertaintimesoftheyear(mid-January,mid-April,
mid-Julyandmid-October),creating“earningsseasons”.
¨Thatsaid,therearequiteafewcompanies,manyofthemhigh-profile,
thatpreservequirkyfiscalyears,andsinceNvidia’searningsreport
triggeredthispost,itisworthnotingthatNvidiahasafiscalyearthat
endsonJanuary31ofeachyear,withquartersendingonApril30,July31
andOctober31.
5
2. The Expectations Game
¨Asignificantportionofsellsideequityresearchisdedicatedtoforecasting
thecontentsofthenextearningreport,especiallyearningspershare,
withrevisionsmadetotheexpectedearnings,asyougetcloserandcloser
tothenextearningsreport.
¨Inmakingtheirearningsjudgmentsandrevisions,analystsdrawonmany
sources,including:
1.Thecompany’shistory:Analystsconsideracompany’shistoricaltrendlinesinforecasting
revenuesandearnings.
2.Peergroupreporting:Itisnaturaltoconsiderthepositiveornegativetheoperating
resultsfromothercompaniesinthegroup,thatmayhavereportedaheadofyour
company.
3.Otheranalysts’estimates:Muchasanalystsclaimtobeindependentthinkers,itis
humannaturetobeaffectedbywhatothersinthegrouparedoing.
4.Macronews:Whilemacroeconomicnews(abouttheeconomy,inflationorcurrency
exchangerates)cutsacrossthemarket,somecompaniesmaybemoreexposedthan
others,andanalystswillhavetorevisitearningsestimatesinlightofnewinformation.
6
Nvidia:The Expectations Set
¨Nvidia is one of the most widely followed companies in the world, 
and most of the seventy analysts who publicly track the firm play 
the estimation game, leading into the earnings reports. 
¨Ahead of the most recent second quarter earnings report, the 
analyst consensus was that the company would report revenues of 
$28.42 billion for the quarter, and fully diluted earnings per share 
of 64 cents; in the 30 days leading into the report, the earnings 
estimates had drifted up mildly (about 0.1%), with the delay in the 
Blackwell (NVidia’s new AI chip) not expected to affect revenue 
growth near term. 
¨It is worth noting that not all analysts tracking the stock forecast 
every metric, and that there was disagreement among them, which 
is also captured in the range on the estimates; on earnings per 
share, for instance, the estimates ranged from 60 to 68 cents, and 
on revenues, from $26 to $30 billion.
7
TheStockPrice lead in..
8
And uncertainty (volatility)…
9
3. The Event: Nvidia’s Earnings Report
10
The Guidance
¨Over the last two decades, companies have supplemented the 
financial reports withguidance on key metrics, particularly 
revenues, margins and earnings, in future quarters. 
¨That guidance has two objectives, with the first directed at 
investors, with the intent of providing information to the market 
and the second at analysts, to frame expectations for the next 
quarter . 
¨As a company that has played the expectations game well, it should 
come as no surprise that Nvidia provided guidance for future 
quarters in its second quarter report, and here too, there were 
reminders that comparisons would get more challenging in future 
quarters, as they predicted that revenue growth rates would come 
back to earth, and that margins would, at best, level off or perhaps 
even decline.
11
The Rest of the News
¨Finally, in an overlooked news story, Nvidia announced 
that it would hadauthorized$50 billion in buybacks, 
over an unspecified time frame. 
¨While that cash return is not surprising for a company 
that has became a profit machine, it is at odds with the 
story that some investors were pricing into the stock of a 
company with almost unlimited growth opportunities in 
an immense new market (AI). 
¨Just as Meta and Alphabet’s dividend initiations signaled 
that they were approaching middle age, Nvidia’s buyback 
announcement may be signaling that the company is 
entering a new phase in the life cycle, intentionally or by 
accident.
12
4. The Reaction: Earnings reports and 
Stock Prices
13
Nvidia’s Earnings Surprises
1.Nvidia, as with many other technology companies, has enough discretion 
in both its expenditures (especially in R&D) and in its revenue 
recognition, that it can use it to beat what analysts expect. 
2.The speed with which the demand for AI chips has grown has surprised 
everyone in the space (company, analysts, investors) and that the results 
reflect the undershooting on forecasts.
14
Losing the expectations game!
¨Focusing specifically on the 2025 second quarter, Nvidia beat 
analyst expectations, delivering earnings per share of 68 cents 
(above the 64 cents forecast) and revenues of $30 billion (again 
higher than the $28.4 billion forecast), but the percentage by which 
it beat expectations was smaller than in the most recent quarters. 
¨That may sound like nitpicking, but the expectations game is an 
insidious one, where investors move the goal posts constantly, and 
more so, if you have been successful in the past. 
¨On August 28, after the earnings report, Nvidia saw share prices 
drop by 8% and not only did that loss persist through the next 
trading day, the stock hascontinued to lose ground, and was 
trading at $106 at the start of trading on September 6, 2028.
15
Earnings reports: Reading the tea leaves!
16
The Trader’s Take on Nvidia
¨For Nvidia, the second quarter report contained good news, if good 
is defined as beating expectations, but the earnings beat was lower 
than in prior quarters. 
¨Coupled with sober guidance and a concern the stock had gone up 
too much and too fast, as its market cap had increased from less 
than half a trillion to three trillion over the course of two years, the 
stage was set for a mood and momentum shift, and the trading 
since the earnings release indicates that it has happened. 
¨Note, though, that this does not mean that something else could 
not cause the momentum to shift back, but before you, as an 
Nvidia manager or shareholder, are tempted to complain about the 
vagaries of momentum, recognize that for much of the last two 
years, no stock has benefited more from momentum than Nvidia.
17
The Investor Take on Nvidia
19
Caveats… Buyer and Seller beware!
¨I value companies for myself, and while my valuations 
animate my decisions to buy or sell stocks, they should not 
determine your choices. That is why my spreadsheet is 
available not just for download, but for modification, to allow 
you to tell your own story for Nvidia, yielding a different 
value. 
¨The second is that this is a tool for investors, not traders, and 
if you are playing the trading game, you will have to reframe 
the analysis and think in terms of mood and momentum. 
¨All in all, looking back, I am at peace with the decision made 
in the summer of 2023 to shed half my Nvidia shares, and 
hold on to half. While I left money on the table, with the half 
that I sold, I have been richly compensated for holding on to 
the other half. I am going to count that as a win and move on!
