Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr23/session6slides.pdf

93
Gauging the marginal investor: Disney in 
2013
Aswath Damodaran
94
Extending the assessment of the investor 
base
¨In all five of the publicly traded companies that we 
are looking at, institutions are big holders of the 
company’s stock.
Aswath Damodaran
95
3. The Limiting Case: The Market Portfolio
Aswath Damodaran
95
¨The big assumptions & the follow up:Assuming diversification costs 
nothing (in terms of transactions costs), and that all assets can be 
traded, the limit of diversification is to hold a portfolio of every 
single asset in the economy (in proportion to market value). This 
portfolio is called the market portfolio. 
¨The consequence:  Individual investors will adjust for risk, by 
adjusting their allocations to this market portfolio and a riskless 
asset (such as a T-Bill):
Preferred risk level Allocation decision
No risk 100% in T-Bills
Some risk 50% in T-Bills; 50% in Market Portfolio;
A little more risk 25% in T-Bills; 75% in Market Portfolio
Even more risk 100% in Market Portfolio
A risk hog.. Borrow money; Invest in market portfolio
96
4. The Risk & Expected Return of an 
Individual Asset
Aswath Damodaran
96
¨The essence: The risk of any asset is the risk that it adds to 
the market portfolio Statistically, this risk can be measured by 
how much an asset moves with the market (called the 
covariance)
¨The measure: Beta is a standardized measure of this 
covariance, obtained by dividing the covariance of any asset 
with the market by the variance of the market. It is a measure 
of the non-diversifiable risk for any asset can be measured by 
the covariance of its returns with returns on a market index, 
which is defined to be the asset's beta.
¨The result: The required return on an investment will be a 
linear function of its beta:
¤Expected Return = Riskfree Rate+ Beta * (Expected Return on the 
Market Portfolio -Riskfree Rate)
97
Limitations of the CAPM
Aswath Damodaran
97
1. The model makes unrealistic assumptions
2. The parameters of the model cannot be estimated precisely
¤The market index used can be wrong.
¤The firm may have changed during the 'estimation' period'
3. The model does not work well
¤-If the model is right, there should be:  
nA linear relationship between returns and betas
nThe only variable that should explain returns is betas
¤-The reality is that
nThe relationship between betas and returns is weak 
nOther variables (size, price/book value) seem to explain differences 
in returns better .
98
Alternatives to the CAPM
Aswath Damodaran
98
The risk in an investment can be measured by the variance in actual returns around an 
expected return
E(R)
Riskless Investment Low Risk Investment High Risk Investment
E(R) E(R)
Risk that is specific to investment (Firm Specific) Risk that affects all investments (Market Risk)
Can be diversified away in a diversified portfolio Cannot be diversified away since most assets
1. each investment is a small proportion of portfolio are affected by it.
2. risk averages out across investments in portfolio
The marginal investor is assumed to hold a “diversified” portfolio. Thus, only market risk will 
be rewarded and priced.
The CAPM The APM Multi-Factor Models Proxy Models
If there is 
1. no private information
2. no transactions cost
the optimal diversified 
portfolio includes every
traded asset. Everyone
will hold this market portfolio
Market Risk = Risk 
added by any investment 
to the market portfolio:
If there are no 
arbitrage opportunities 
then the market risk of
any asset must be 
captured by betas 
relative to factors that 
affect all investments.
Market Risk = Risk 
exposures of any 
asset to market 
factors
Beta of asset relative to
Market portfolio (from
a regression)
Betas of asset relative
to unspecified market
factors (from a factor
analysis)
Since market risk affects
most or all investments,
it must come from 
macro economic factors.
Market Risk = Risk 
exposures of any 
asset to macro 
economic factors.
Betas of assets relative
to specified macro
economic factors (from
a regression)
In an efficient market,
differences in returns
across long periods must
be due to market risk
differences. Looking for
variables correlated with
returns should then give 
us proxies for this risk.
Market Risk = 
Captured by the 
Proxy Variable(s)
Equation relating 
returns to  proxy 
variables (from a
regression)
Step 1: Defining Risk
Step 2: Differentiating between Rewarded and Unrewarded Risk
Step 3: Measuring Market Risk
99
Why the CAPM persists…
Aswath Damodaran
99
¨The CAPM, notwithstanding its many critics and limitations, 
has survived as the default model for risk in equity valuation 
and corporate finance. The alternative models that have been 
presented as better models (APM, Multifactor model..) have 
made inroads in performance evaluation but not in 
prospective analysis because:
¤The alternative models (which are richer) do a much better job than 
the CAPM in explaining past return, but their effectiveness drops off 
when it comes to estimating expected future returns (because the 
models tend to shift and change).
¤The alternative models are more complicated and require more 
information than the CAPM.
¤For most companies, the expected returns you get with the the 
alternative models is not different enough to be worth the extra 
trouble of estimating four additional betas.
100
Application Test: Who is the marginal investor in 
your firm?
Aswath Damodaran
100
¨You can get information on insider and institutional holdings in your firm 
from:
¤http://finance.yahoo.com/
¤Enter your company’s symbol and choose profile.
¨Looking at the breakdown of stockholders in your firm, consider whether 
the marginal investor is
¤An institutional investor 
¤An individual investor
¤An insider
¨Follow up by evaluating whether the marginal investor is likely to be 
diversified.
¤If yes, you are on safer ground using the risk and return models that assume that 
only non-diversifiable risk is rewarded.
¤If no, you will have to adapt your risk measure to bring in some or all o fthe
company-specific risk that you were ignoring.
From Risk Models to Hurdle Rates:
Estimation Challenges
“The price of purity is purists…”
Anonymous
Aswath Damodaran 101
102
Inputs required to use the CAPM -
Aswath Damodaran
102
¨The capital asset pricing model yields the following 
expected return:
¤Expected Return = RiskfreeRate+ Beta * (Expected Return 
on the Market Portfolio -RiskfreeRate)
¨To use the m odel, we need three inputs:
a. The current risk-free rate
b. The expected market risk premium, the premium 
expected for investing in risky assets, i.e. the market 
portfolio, over the riskless asset.
c. The beta of the asset being analyzed.
103
The Riskfree Rate and Time Horizon
Aswath Damodaran
103
¨On a riskfree asset, the actual return is equal to the 
expected return. Therefore, there is no variance around 
the expected return.
¨For an investment to be riskfree, i.e., to have an actual 
return be equal to the expected return, two conditions 
have to be met –
¤There can be no default risk, which generally implies that the 
security has to be issued by the government. Note, however, 
that not all governments can be viewed as default free.
¤There can be no uncertainty about reinvestment rates, which 
implies that it is a zero-coupon security with the same maturity 
as the cash flow being analyzed.
104
Riskfree Rate in Practice
Aswath Damodaran
104
¨Definition: The riskfreerate is the rate on a zero coupon 
default-free bond matching the time horizon of the cash flow 
being analyzed.
¨Implication:Theoretically, this translates into using different 
riskfreerates for each cash flow -the 1 year zero coupon rate 
for the cash flow in  year 1, the 2-year zero coupon rate for 
the cash flow in year 2  ...
¨A Practical Solution: Practically speaking, if there is 
substantial uncertainty about expected  cash flows, the 
present value effect of using time varying riskfreerates is 
small enough that it may not be worth it. 
¨In corporate finance, almost everything we do is long term. 
So, using a long-term default free rate as the riskfree rate 
makes sense.
105
The Bottom Line on Riskfree Rates
¨Currency Matching: The riskfreerate that you use in an analysis should be in 
the same currency that your cashflows are estimated in. 
¤In other words, if your cashflows are in U.S. dollars, your riskfreerate has to be in 
U.S. dollars as well.
¤If your cash flows are in Euros, your riskfreerate should be a Euro riskfreerate.
¨ Just use the government bond rate?The conventional practice of estimating 
riskfreerates is to use the government bond rate, with the government being 
the one that is in control of issuing that currency. In November 2013, for 
instance, the rate on a ten-year US treasury bond (2.75%) is used as the risk 
free rate in US dollars.
¨If the government is default-free, using a long term government rate 
(even on a coupon bond) as the risk free rate on all of the cash flows in a 
long term analysis will yield a close approximation of the true value. For 
short term analysis, it is entirely appropriate to use a short term 
government security rate as the riskfreerate.
Aswath Damodaran
106
What is the Euro riskfree rate? An exercise 
in November 2013
Aswath Damodaran
0.00%
1.00%
2.00%
3.00%
4.00%
5.00%
6.00%
7.00%
8.00%
9.00%
Germany Austria France Belgium Ir eland Italy Spain Portugal Slovenia Greece
1.75%
2.10% 2.15% 2.35%
3.30%
3.90% 3.95%
5.90%
6.42%
8.30%
Rate on 10-year Euro Government Bonds: November 2013
107
When the government is default free: Risk 
free rates –in November 2013
!
Aswath Damodaran
108
What if there is no default-free entity?
Risk free rates in November 2013
¨Adjust the local currency government borrowing rate for default risk to 
get a riskless local currency rate. 
¤In November 2013, the Indian government rupee bond rate was 8.82%. the local 
currency rating from Moody’s was Baa3 and the default spread for a Baa3 rated 
country bond was 2.25%.
Riskfreerate in Rupees = 8.82% -2.25% = 6.57%
¤In November 2013, the Chinese Renmimbigovernment bond rate was 4.30% and 
the local currency rating was Aa3, with a default spread of 0.8%.
Riskfree rate in Chinese Renmimbi= 4.30% -0.80% = 3.50%
¨Do the analysis in an alternate currency, where getting the riskfreerate is 
easier . With Vale in 2013, we could choose to do the analysis in US dollars 
(rather than estimate a riskfree rate in R$). The riskfreerate is then the 
US treasury bond rate.
¨Do your analysis in real terms, in which case the riskfreerate has tobe a 
real riskfreerate. The inflation-indexed treasury rate is a measure of a real 
riskfreerate.
Aswath Damodaran
109
Three paths to estimating sovereign 
default spreads
¤Sovereign dollar or euro denominated bonds: The difference 
between the interest rate on a sovereign US $  bond, issued 
by the country, and the US treasury bond rate can be used as 
the default spread. For example, in November 2013, the 10-
year Brazil US $ bond, denominated in US dollars had a yield 
of 4.25% and the US 10-year T.Bond rate traded at 2.75%.
Default spread = 4.25% -2.75% = 1.50%
¨CDS spreads: Obtain the default spreads for sovereigns in the 
CDS market. The CDS spread for Brazil in November 2013 was 
2.50%. 
¨Average spread: If you know the sovereign rating for a 
country, you can estimate the default spread based on the 
rating. In November 2013, Brazil’s rating was Baa2, yielding a 
default spread of 2%.
Aswath Damodaran
109
110
Risk free rates in currencies: Sovereigns 
with default risk in November 2013
Aswath Damodaran
110
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
12.00%
14.00%
16.00%
Taiwanese $Czech KorunaHong Kong $
Malaysia RinggitBritish PoundKorean WonIsr aeli ShekelPoli sh Zloty
Chinese RemimbiPhil li pi ne PesoChilean PesoMexican PesoColombian Peso
Thai Baht
Venezuelan Bolivar
Russian Ruble
Indonesian RupiahSout African Rand
Turkis h LiraIndian RupeePaki stani Rupe eNigerian NairaBrazilian $R
Figure 4.2: Risk free rates in Currencies where Governments not Aaa 
rated
De faul t Spread
Risk free rate
111
Risk free Rates in January 2023
Aswath Damodaran
111
112
Measurement of the equity risk premium
Aswath Damodaran
112
¨The equity risk premium is the premium that investors 
demand for investing in an average risk investment, 
relative to the riskfreerate.
¨As a general proposition, this premium should be
¤greater than zero
¤increase with the risk aversion of the investors in that market
¤increase with the riskiness of the “average”risk investment
¨If so, it also follows that equity risk premiums should 
change over time, as economic circumstances change
and investor composition also changes.
113
What is your risk premium?
¨Assume that stocks are the only risky assets and that you are 
offered two investment options:
¤a riskless investment (say a Government Security), on which you can 
make 3%
¤a mutual fund of all  stocks, on which the returns are uncertain
¨How much of an expected return would you demand to shift 
your money from the riskless asset to the mutual fund?
a. Less than 3%
b. Between 3% -5%
c. Between  5% -7%
d. Between  7% -9%
e. Between 9%-11%
f. More than  11%
Aswath Damodaran
114
Risk Aversion and Risk Premiums
Aswath Damodaran
114
¨If this were the entire market, the risk premium 
would be a weighted average of the risk premiums 
demanded by each and everyinvestor .
¨The weights will be determined by the wealth that 
each investor brings to the market. Thus, Warren 
Buffett’s risk aversion counts more towards 
determining the “equilibrium”premium than yours’
and mine.
¨As investors become more risk averse, or the market 
becomes “more risky”, yo u  wo u ld  ex p e c t  t h e  
“equilibrium”premium to increase.
115
Risk Premiums do change..
Aswath Damodaran
115
¨Go back to the previous question. Assume now that 
you are making the same choice but that you are 
making it in the aftermath of a stock market crash (it 
has dropped 25% in the last month). Would you 
change your answer?
a. I would demand a larger premium
b. I would demand a smaller premium
c. I would demand the same premium
