Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session6atest.pdf

Session	6:	Post	Class	tests	
1. Assume	that	you	are	estimating	a	US	dollar	hurdle	rate	for	a	Mexican	company	
with	US	operations.	Which	of	the	following	would	you	use	as	your	risk	free	rate?	
(You	can	assume	that	Mexico’s	sovereign	rating	is	Baa1	for	both	its	local	
currency	and	foreign	currency	bonds)	
a. The	rate	on	a	ten-year	US	treasury	bond	(2%)	
b. The	rate	on	a	3-month	US	treasury	bill	(0.25%)	
c. The	rate	on	a	dollar	denominated	Mexican	Government	bond	(3.5%)	
d. The	rate	on	a	peso	denominated	Mexican	Government	bond	(6%)	
e. The	rate	on	a	US	dollar	denominated	bond	issued	by	the	Mexican	
company	(4.5%)	
f. None	of	the	above	
2. Assume	that	you	are	now	estimating	a	peso	hurdle	rate	for	a	Mexican	company	
with	US	operations.	Which	of	the	following	would	you	use	as	your	risk	free	rate?	
(You	can	assume	that	Mexico’s	sovereign	rating	is	Baa1	for	both	its	local	
currency	and	foreign	currency	bonds)	
a. The	rate	on	a	ten-year	US	treasury	bond	(2%)	
b. The	rate	on	a	3-month	US	treasury	bill	(0.25%)	
c. The	rate	on	a	dollar	denominated	Mexican	Government	bond	(3.5%)	
d. The	rate	on	a	peso	denominated	Mexican	Government	bond	(6%)	
e. The	rate	on	a	US	dollar	denominated	bond	issued	by	the	Mexican	
company	(5%)	
f. None	of	the	above	
3. The	equity	risk	premium	is	the	premium	that	investors	charge	over	and	above	
the	risk	free	rate	to	invest	in	equities.	A	key	source	of	information	about	equities	
is	earnings	reports	from	companies.	In	the	last	two	decades,	companies	have	
used	both	accounting	discretion	and	operating	choices	to	“manage”	their	
earnings,	making	them	smoother	(less	variability	over	time).	What	consequence	
would	you	expect	for	equity	risk	premiums	from	managed	earnings?	
a. Equity	risk	premiums	should	go	down.	(Earnings	are	smoother)	
b. Equity	risk	premiums	should	go	up.	(Earnings	are	less	informative)	
c. Equity	risk	premiums	should	not	change.	
4. If	investors	are	rational,	the	expected	equity	risk	premium	for	a	market	should	
never	be	less	than	zero.	
a. True	
b. False	
5. Many	analysts	use	past	data	on	stock	and	government	security	returns	to	
estimate	a	historical	risk	premium.	Assume	that	the	arithmetic	(geometric)	
average	of	annual	stock	returns	is	10%	(9%)	and	that	the	arithmetic	(geometric)	
average	of	annual	treasury	bond	returns	is	5%	(4.5%)	over	a	hundred	year	
period.	If	the	annualized	standard	deviation	in	stock	returns	over	this	period	
was	20%,	which	of	the	following	is	your	fairest	characterization	of	the	historical	
risk	premium	(which	you	plan	to	use	in	your	long	term	hurdle	rate)?	
a. Historical	risk	premium	is	5%,	standard	error	is	20%	
b. Historical	risk	premium	is	4.5%,	standard	error	is	2%
c. Historical	risk	premium	is	5.5%,	standard	error	is	2%	
d. Historical	risk	premium	is	4%,	standard	error	is	2%	
e. None	of	the	above	
6. There	are	some	analysts	who	use	historical	risk	premiums	with	emerging	
markets,	using	average	premiums	over	ten	to	fifteen	years,	in	their	estimates.	
Which	of	the	following	would	you	be	most	concerned	about,	with	this	approach?	
a. Equity	risk	premiums	will	be	too	high,	since	emerging	markets	do	better	
than	developed	markets.	
b. Equity	risk	premiums	will	be	too	low,	if	there	is	a	bear	market	during	the	
estimation	period.	
c. A	historical	risk	premium	with	only	ten	to	fifteen	years	of	data	will	have	a	
very	high	standard	error.	
d. Emerging	markets	are	too	volatile.	
e. Emerging	markets	are	dynamic	and	changing	over	time.
