Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate1for2025.pdf

Playing Moneyball (again)!
§For the last four decades, I have spent the first week 
of each year collecting and analyzing data on 
publicly traded companies and sharing what I find 
with anyone who is interested. 
§It is the end of the first week in 2025, and my data 
update for the year is now up and running, and I plan 
to use this post to describe my data sample, my 
processes for computing industry statistics and the 
links to finding them. 
§I will also repeat the caveats about how and where 
the data is best used, that I have always added to my 
updates.
Aswath Damodaran 2
§Fact-checking assertions: In corporate finance and investing, 
which are areas that I work in, I find myself doing double takes 
as I listen to politicians, market experts and economists making 
statements about company and market behavior that don't hold 
up to scrutiny.
§Noise in predictions: One reason that the expert class is 
mistrusted, it is because of the unwillingness on the part of 
many in this class to admit to uncertainty in their forecasts 
about what will happen in the future. If those predictions are 
based upon data, it is almost always the case that predictions 
come with error (noise) and that admitting to this is not a sign 
of weakness. 
Aswath Damodaran 3
§There is an enduring belief that data is objective, at least if it 
takes numerical form. In the hands of analysts who are biased 
or have agendas, they can find ways to mold the data to fit their 
pre-conceptions. 
§I would like to claim to have no bias, but that would be a lie, 
since biases are often engrained and unconscious, but I have 
tried, as best as I can, to be transparent about the sample that I 
use, the data that I work with and how I compute my statistics.
Aswath Damodaran 5
§Investors and companies often use the past to predict the 
future, and while that is entirely understandable, there is a 
reason why every investment pitch comes with the disclaimer 
that“past performance is not a reliable indicator of future 
performance”.
§I havewritten about how mean reversion is at the heart of 
many active investing strategies, and why assuming that history 
will repeat can be a mistake. 
§Thus, as you peruse my historical data on implied equity risk 
premiums or PE ratios for the S&P 500 over time, you may be 
tempted to compute averages and use them in your investment 
strategies, but you should hold back.
Aswath Damodaran 6
§We live in a time, when data is more accessible and available 
then ever before, and I am a beneficiary. I draw my data from 
many raw data sources, some of which are freely available to 
everyone, some of which I pay for and some of which I have 
access to, because I work at a business school in a university. 
§For company data, my primary source is S&P Capital IQ, augmented 
with data from a Bloomberg terminal. 
§For the segment of my data that is macroeconomic, my primary 
source is FRED, the Fed’s St. Louis dataset, but I supplement with 
other data that I found online, including NAICS for bond spread data 
and Political Risk Services (PRS) for country risk scores.
Aswath Damodaran 7
Aswath Damodaran 10
Aswath Damodaran 11
§I do create a more detailed breakdown of companies into 94 
industry groups, loosely structured to stay with industry 
groupings that I originally created in the 1990s from Value Line 
data, to allow for comparisons across time. 
§I know that this is at odds with the industry classifications based 
upon SIC or NAICS codes, but it works well enough for me, at 
least in the context of corporate finance and valuation. 
§The industry averages that I report are also provided using the 
regional breakdown above. If you want to check out which 
industry group a company falls into, pleaseclick on this file(a 
very large one that may take a while to download) for that 
detail.
Aswath Damodaran 12
Aswath Damodaran 13
§These datasets were all compiled in the last four days and 
reflect data available at the start of 2025. 
§For market numbers, like market capitalization, interest rates and 
risk premiums, these numbers are current, reflecting the market's 
judgments at the start of 2025. 
§For company financial numbers, I am reliant on accounting 
information, which gets updated on a quarterly basis.As a 
consequence, the accounting numbers reflect the most recent 
financial filings (usually September 30, 2024), and I use the trailing 
12-month numbers through the most recent filing for flow numbers 
(income statement and cash flow statements) and the most recent 
balance sheet for stock numbers (balance sheet values).
§While this may seem inconsistent, it reflects what investors in 
the market have available to them, to price stocks.
§Since I updated most of the data only once a year, it will age as 
we go through 2025, but that aging will be most felt, if you use 
my pricing multiples (PE, PBV , EV to EBITDA etc.) and not so 
much with the accounting ratios (accounting returns). 
§To the extent that interest rates and risk premiums will change 
over the course of the year, the data sets that use them (cost of 
capital) allow for updating these macro numbers. 
§In short, if the ten-year treasury rate climbs to 5% and equity 
risk premiums surge, you can update those numbers in thecost 
of capital worksheet, and get updated values.
§While I compute the data variables by company, I am restricted 
from sharing company-specific data by my raw data providers, 
and most of the data I report is at the industry level. That said, I 
have wrestled with how best to estimate and report industry 
statistics, since almost every statistical measure comes with 
caveats.
§Since I include all publicly traded firms in my sample, with 
disclosure requirements varying across firms, there are 
variables where data is missing. Rather than throw out these 
firms from the sample entirely, I keep them in my universe, but 
report values for only the firms with non-missing data. 
§On an upbeat note, though, and speaking from the perspective 
of someone who has been doing this for a few decades, 
accounting standards around the world are less divergent now 
than in the past, and the data, even in small emerging markets, 
has far fewer missing items than ten or twenty years ago.
§The data that you will find on my website is for public 
consumption, and I have tried to organize it to make it easily 
accessible on my webpage. Note that the current year’s data 
can be accessed here:
https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar//New_Home_Page/datacurr
ent.html
§If you are interested in getting the data from previous years, it 
should be available in the archived data section on my 
webpage:
https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar//New_Home_Page/dataarch
ived.html
§The data is intended primarily for practitioners doing 
valuation, and I hope that I can save time and help in valuations 
in real time. If you are a researcher, you are welcome to use the 
archived data, but it will require contortions and compromises. 
§As for acknowledgements when using the data, I will repeat 
that I said in prior years. If you use my data and want to 
acknowledge that usage, I thank you, but if you skip that 
acknowledgement, I will not view it as a slight, and I certainly 
am not going to threaten you with legal consequences.
§As a final note, please recognize that this I don't have a team 
working for me, and while that gives me the benefit of 
controlling the process, unlike the pope, I am extremely fallible. 
If you find mistakes or missing links, please let me know and I 
will fix them as quickly as I can.
