Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate7.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE VII: 
MULTIPLE MAYHEM
Revisiting the Pricing Game
2
The crisis (continued)
¨ I get a sense that I am approaching the end of this series of weekly 
posts, or perhaps I am just hoping that it is true, as the COVID crisis 
continued to play out in markets in the last two weeks, albeit on a 
more subdued scale and with a positive twist. 
¨ In this post, I will, as in the prior weeks, update the prior weeks’ 
market action (for two weeks, from April 4 to April 17) in different 
asset classes, and within equities, across regions, sectors and stock 
classifications. 
¨ I will close this post by looking at how pricing tools, including a 
range of multiples (from PE ratios to price to book to EV to EBITDA 
multiples) will become shakier and less reliable in the aftermath of 
the crisis, and suggest ways in which we can compensate for the 
uncertainties.
3
The markets: Equities
4
The markets: Treasuries
5
The markets: Commodities
6
The markets last week: Gold & Bitcoin
7
The Price of Risk: Corporate Bonds
8
The Price of Risk: Equities
9
Equities: By Region
10
Equities: By Sector
11
Equities: Most & least damaged Industries
12
Equities: Net Debt Ratios
13
A Pricing Market?
¨ In my earlier posts, I argued that just because uncertainty has 
increased, there is no excuse for abandoning valuation first 
principles or process and argued that you can still value 
companies, albeit with a much wider range of outcomes. 
¨ One common counter that I got to this argument was that 
valuation was pointless, when the uncertainty was so great 
and while most did not bother presenting alternatives, my 
guess is that many will fall back on pricing metrics to decide 
whether and what to buy or sell. 
¨ Put simply, they will use a PE ratio or an enterprise value 
multiple of EBITDA or sales to decide what stocks to buy or 
sell, acting under the delusion that this will allow them to 
escape having to make assumptions in the future.
14
Deconstructing Pricing
15
Consistency Rules
¨ Equity/Firm: The first is that if the numerator is an equity value, the 
denominator should be an equity value as well, while if the 
numerator is a firm or enterprise value, the denominator has to be 
an operating value. Thus, PE (market cap, an equity value, is 
divided by earnings per share, an equity value) and EV to EBITDA 
(EV is a market value of operating assets and EBITDA is a measure 
of operating cash flow) are consistent, but Price to EBITDA is an 
inconsistent abomination and Price to Sales is almost as badly 
constructed.
¨ Timing: The second is that multiples are constructed for 
comparisons across companies, not as stand alone measures. It 
follows therefore that you should be consistent in how you 
measure your scaling variable (revenues, book value, earnings) 
across companies. Thus, if you choose to use trailing earnings for 
your company to compute PE, you have to use trailing earnings for 
all your companies .
16
Determinants of Multiples
17
The Timing Effect: Pricing in a Crisis
18
Regional Pricing: The COVID effect
19
Sector Pricing: A COVID update
20
Pricing: A Wrap
¨ As companies start to report their first quarter earnings, you are starting 
to get a glimpse of the damage created by the crisis and my guess is that 
you will start to see more analysts and companies start to forecast 
forward numbers. 
¤ For those companies where forward earnings are positive, you can switch to 
forward PE ratios, but expect these numbers to be much, much higher than 
historical norms. 
¤ For those companies that have negative forward earnings, you will see revenue 
multiples or creative variations on future earnings.
¨ Later this year, as companies report numbers for the second and third 
quarters of 2020, the trailing operating numbers will finally catch up with 
the crisis, and you may be able to shift back to trailing multiples. 
¨ Put simply, if you are abandoning or refusing to do intrinsic valuation, 
because you feel uncomfortable with having to make assumptions, the 
same uncertainty is going to pervade your pricing as well.
