Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Paytm2021.pdf

THE INDIAN SMARTPHONE 
REVOLUTION: PAYTM’S COMING 
OF AGE IPO!
An Adolescent with Attention Deficit!
2
India’s Biggest IPO
qA few weeks ago, I valued Zomato, the Indian online food delivery 
company, just prior to its IPO, and argued that the excitement 
about its potential was tied to the potential for growth in India and 
the shifting habits of Indian consumers. Since its public offering, 
Zomato's stock price has reflected that excitement, more than 
doubling from its offering price of 74 rupees per share. 
qWaiting in the wings to go public, is Paytm, a company that in many 
ways is even more closely tied to India's macro story, drawing on 
the growth of online commerce in India and a willingness of Indian 
consumers to use mobile payment mechanisms. 
qI will look at the levers that drive Paytm's value, and you can make 
your judgments on where you think this offering will lead in terms 
of valuation and pricing.
3
Setting the Stage: The Growth of Smartphones
Reliance Jio 
launch in Indian 
market
4
And Their Usage…
5
Rise of Mobile Payments
In 2016, United Payments Interface (UPI), a real-time payment interface devised by 
the National Payments Corporation of India, and regulated by the Reserve Bank of 
India, was introduced, facilitating and speeding up inter-bank, person to person and 
person to merchant transactions.
6
Paytm: A Parallel History
¨When it was founded in in 2010 by by Vijay Sharma, it operated as 
a pre-paid mobile platform, but its market then was small both in 
terms of numbers and services offered. 
¨As mobile access improved, Paytm added to its suite of products. 
¤In 2014, it introducedPaytm Wallet, a digital wallet that was accepted as a 
payment option by leading service providers and retailers. 
¤In 2016, it added ticket booking to movies, events and amusement parks, 
with flight bookings soon after , and startedPaytm Mall, a consumer 
shopping app, based upon Alibaba's Taobao Mall model. 
¤In 2017 it addedPaytm Gold, allowing users to buy gold in quantities as 
little as 1 rupee, andPaytm Payments Bank, a messaging platform with in-
Chat payments. 
¤In 2018, it added aPaytm Money, for investment and wealth 
management, and in 2019, it launched aPaytm for Business appfor 
merchants to track payments. In short, over time, it has used its platform 
of users to launch itself into almost every online activity.
7
Paytm: Financial History
8
Paytm’s Funding
9
And ownership structure
10
The Paytm Story: Drivers
11
The Competitive Landscape
12
Take rates and Margins: Peer Analysis
13
Risk, Share Count and IPO Proceeds
¨On the risk front, there is little reason to reinvent the wheel. 
Paytm's cost of capital, in rupee terms, is 10.43%, reflecting 
its business risk, and puts the company just below the 
median Indian company, in risk terms. The company's 
capacity to burn cash will continue to expose it to risk, but 
with deep pocketed investors (Alibaba and Softbank), and a 
large cash balance (post IPO), the risk of failure is low (5%).
¨To get from these numbers to a value per share, I use the 
existing share count (617 million shares), in conjunction with 
the information in the prospectus that the company plans to 
raise₹166,000 million at the offering, with half of these 
proceeds staying in the firm to cover future investment needs 
and the other half going to existing shareholders, cashing out.
16
Investment Implications
¨Given that almost all of the value of Paytm comes from 
expectations of the future, and there is significant uncertainty on 
every single dimension, it should come as no surprise that the 
range on estimated value is immense, with a 3% chance that the 
company's equity is worth nothing to more than  at the 90th 
percentile. 
¨With this range in value, the potential for your priors and biases to 
play out on your final valuation are strong. Put simply, if you like 
the company so much that you want to buy the stock, you can find 
a way to make the assumptions that get to that value. 
¨Even if you strongly favor the company and find it under valued, it 
would be hubris to concentrate your portfolio, around this stock. In 
other words, this is the type of stock that you would put 5% or 
perhaps 10% of your portfolio in, not 25% or 40%.
17
Closing Thoughts
¨ As human beings, it is natural for us to categorize choices we face into broad 
groupings, because those groupings then allow us to generalize what we have 
learned from observing the group. In the 1980s, when technology companies first 
entered the market in big numbers, we classified them all as high growth, high risk 
investments. While that categorization would have worked at the time, it is quite 
clear that the technology sector today is not only a dominant segment of the 
market (accounting for the largest slice of the S&P 500 market capitalization pie), 
but it is also home to a wide array of companies. 
¨ A few weeks ago, when I valued Zomato, I argued that it was a joint bet on the 
company's continued dominance of the food delivery market and the growth in 
the Indian restaurant/food delivery business. Paytm is also a joint bet on an early 
entrant into the Indian mobile payment market, continuing to maintain market 
share, in a growing digital payment market in India. 
¨ That said, the companies have very different business models, with Zomato's 20% 
plus take of every dollar spent on its platform vastly exceeding Paytm's less than 
1% take of every dollar spent on its platform. They are both big market bets, but 
the Paytm bet is much more dependent on management figuring out a way to 
grow, while improving take rates at the same time.
