Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/AramcoFollowUp.pdf

REGIME CHANGE AND VALUE: AN 
ARAMCO VALUATION FOLLOW-UP
Aswath Damodaran
2
Lead in
¨ In my post from a couple of days ago, I valued Aramco at about 
$1.65 trillion using three different perspectives on value.
¨ I qualified that valuation by noting that this was the value before 
adjusting for regime change concerns but that comment seems to 
have been lost in the wind, and it is perhaps because (a) I made it 
at the end of the valuation and (b) because the adjustment I made 
for it seemed completely arbitrary, knocking off about 10% off the 
value. 
¨ Since this is a topic that is increasingly front and center in a world 
where political disruptions seem to be the order of the day in many 
parts of the world, I thought that a post dedicated to just regime 
changes and how they affect value might be in order, and Aramco 
would offer an exceptionally good lab experiment.
3
Going Concern and Truncation Risk
¨ Risk is part and parcel of investing. That said, risk 
came come from many sources and not all risk is 
created equal, at least to investors. 
¨ In fact, modern finance was born from the insight 
that for a diversified investor, it is only risk that you 
cannot diversify away, i.e., macroeconomic risk 
exposure, that affects value. 
¨ I want to talk about another stratification of risk into 
going concern and truncation risk that is talked 
about much less but could just matter even more.
4
DCF Value: A Going Concern Estimate?
¨ The intrinsic value of a company has always been a 
function of its expected cash flows, its growth and 
how risky the cash flows are, but in recent decades a 
combination of access to data and baby steps in 
bringing economic models into valuation has 
resulted in the development of discounted cashflow 
valuation as a tool to estimate intrinsic value.
¨ Extended to a publicly traded company, with a 
potential life in perpetuity, this value can be written 
as:
5
DCF Adaptability & Afterthoughts
¨ I believe that people underestimate how adaptable it is, 
usable in valuing everything from start ups to infrastructure 
projects. 
¨ There is, however,one significant limitation with DCF 
models that neither its proponents nor its critics seem be 
aware of. Specifically, aDCF is an approach to valuing going 
concerns, and every aspect of it is built around the 
presumption. 
¤ Thus, you estimate expected cash flows each year for the firm, as a 
going concern, and your discount rate reflects the risk that you see in 
the company as a going concern. 
¤ In fact, it is this going concern assumption that allows us to assume 
that cash flows continue for the long term, sometimes forever, and 
attach a terminal value to these cash flows.
6
Truncation Risk
¨ If you accept the premise that a DCF is a going concern 
value, you are probably wondering what other risks that 
are being missed in a DCF valuation. 
¨ The risks that I believe are either ignored or incorrectly 
incorporated into value are truncation risks. 
¨ The simplest way of illustrating the difference between 
going concern and truncation risks is by picking a year in 
your cash flow estimation, say year 3. With going 
concern risk, you are worried about the cash flows in 
year 3 being different from your expectations, but with 
truncation risk, you are worried about whether there will 
be a year 3 in the first place.
7
Examples of truncation risk
¨ Looking at the corporate life cycle, and at its two extremes, 
you will see truncation risk become not just significant but 
perhaps the dominant risk that you worry about. 
¤ With start ups, it is survival riskthat is front and center, given that two 
thirds of start ups never make it to becoming viable businesses. 
¤ With declining and aging companies, especially laden with debt, it is 
distress risk, where the company unable to meet its contractual 
obligations, shutters its doors and liquidates it assets. 
¨ Looking at political risk, truncation risk can come in many 
forms, starting with nationalization risk, where a government 
takes over your business and pays you nothing in some cases 
and less than fair value in the rest, but extending to other 
expropriation risks, where you still are allowed to hold equity, 
but in a much less valuable concern.
8
Typical Approaches for dealing with 
truncation risk
¨ Hike  up the discount rate: The problem, though, is that his higher 
discount rate still goes into a DCF where expected cash flows 
continue in perpetuity, creating an internal contradiction, where 
you adjust the discount rate up for a truncation risk but you do 
nothing to the cash flows. In addition, the discount rate that these 
analysts use are made up, higher just for the sake of being higher, 
with no rationale for the adjustment. Discount rates are blunt 
instruments and are incapable of carrying the burden of truncation 
risk, and should not be made to do so.
¨ Scenario Analysis and Ranges for Value: Some analysts take the 
more sensible approach of scenario analysis, allowing for good and 
bad scenarios (including failure or nationalization) but never close 
the loop by attaching probabilities to the scenarios. Instead, they 
leave behind ranges for the value that are so wide as to be useless 
for decision making purposes.
9
A Decision Tree Alternative
¨ Use a decision tree approach, where you not only allow for different 
scenarios, but you make these encompassing of all possibilities and also
attach a probability to each one. 
¨ In the case of a start up, then, your two possible outcomes will be that 
the company will make it as a going concern and that it will not, and you 
will follow through with a DCF, with a going concern discount rate, 
yielding the value for the going concern outcome and a liquidation 
providing your judgment for what the company will be worth, in the 
failure scenario:
10
Revisiting the Aramco FCFE Valuation
11
Pushback from readers…
¨ The biggest push back I have had on my valuations is that the cost 
of equity seems low for a country like Saudi Arabia, and my 
response is that you are right, if you consider all of the risk in 
investing in a Saudi equity. 
¨ However, much of the risk that you are contemplating in Saudi 
Arabia is political risk, or put more bluntly, the risk of regime 
change in the country, that could have dramatic effects on value. 
¨ In fact, if you remove that risk from consideration and look at the 
remaining risk, Aramco is a remarkably safe investment, with the 
safety coming from its access to huge oil reserves and mind-
blowing profits and cash flows. The DCF values that I have 
estimated, centered around $1.65 trillion, are therefore values 
before adjusting for the risk of regime change.
12
Regime Change and Consequence
¨ If you invest in Aramco, you clearly have an interests 
in who rules and runs the country, since every aspect 
of your valuation is dependent on that assumption.
13
The extreme cases
¨ If you believe that regime change in imminent and certain, and that the 
change will be extreme (with equity being expropriated and Aramco being 
brought back entirely into the hands of the state), my expected value for 
equity becomes zero:
¨ If at the other extreme, I either believe that regime change will never 
happen, or even if it does, the new regime will not want to kill the goose 
that lays the golden eggs and leaves existing terms in place, the value 
effect of considering regime change will be zero:
14
The middle ground
¨ The truth lies between the extremes, though where it lies is 
open for debate. I believe that there remains a non-trivial 
chance (perhaps as high as 20%) that there will be a regime 
change over the long term and that if there is one, there will 
be changes that reduce, but not extinguish, my claim, as an 
equity investor, on the cash flows.
15
Democracy versus Autocracy
¨ Democracies are messy institutions, where governments change and 
policies morph, because voters change their minds. Put simply, a 
democracy generally cannot offer any business iron clad guarantees about 
regulations not changing or tax rates remaining stable, because the 
government that offers those promises first has to get them through 
legislatures, often can be checked by legal institutions and, most critically, 
can be voted out of office. 
¨ Autocracies offer more stability, since autocrats don't have to get policies 
approved by legislators, often are unchecked by legal institutions and 
don't have to worry about how their decision poll with voters. Companies 
operating in autocracies can be promise rules that are fixed, regulations 
that don't change and tax rates that will stay constant. 
¨ The bottom line: Democracies create more going concern risk (higher 
discount rates) and autocracies create more worries about regime change 
(post-valuation adjustment).
16
The risk trade off
¨ The going concern risk that is added by being in a democracy will depend 
on how the democracy works. 
¤ If you have a democracy, where the opposing parties tend to agree on basic 
economic principles and disagree on the margins, the going concern risk added will 
be small. 
¤ In contrast, if you have a democracy, where governments are unstable and the 
opposing parties have widely different views on the very fundamentals of how an 
economy should be structured, the effect on going concern risk will be much 
higher .
¨ The regime change risk in an autocracy will vary in how the autocracy is 
structured and how transitions happen. 
¤ Autocracies structured around a person are inherently more unstable than 
autocracies built around a party or ideology.
¤ Transitions are more likely to be violent if the military is involved in regime change, 
in either direction. In addition, violent regime changes feed on themselves, with 
memories of past violent meted out to a group driving the violence that it metes 
out, when its turn comes .
17
Bottom line
¨ I have often described valuation as a craft, where mastery is an 
elusive goal and the key to getting better is working at doing more 
valuation. 
¨ I am glad that I valued Aramco, because it is an unconventional 
investment, a company where I have to worry more about political 
risks than economic ones. The techniques I develop in valuing
these risks will help me not only in valuing Latin American 
companies, as that continent approaches one of its periodic phases 
of disquiet but also in developed markets, which seem to be 
showing emerging market traits. 
¨ As we approach an election in Britain next month and a 
presidential election in the United States in 2020, it is worth noting 
that we face starker divides on economic first principles between 
the opposing parties than we ever did in the past, leading to much 
greater going concern risk for all companies
