Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaTrillion.pdf

TESLA AT A TRILLION: TIME FOR A 
REVALUATION!
A COVID Winner?
2
Tesla again?
¨I have been writing about and valuing Tesla for most of 
its lifetime in public markets, and while it remains a 
company that draws strong reactions, it is one that I 
truly enjoy valuing. 
¨It has been a while since my last valuation of the 
company, which occurred in January 2020, and given 
how much the landscape has changed, partly as a result 
of the company's own actions and results partly because 
of how COVID has upended the automobile business to 
Tesla's benefit, it is time to revisit the company and 
reassess its value, especially as the company’s market 
capitalization crosses a trillion dollars.
3
The Back Story
¨Ifirst valued Tesla in 2013, as a "luxury automobile 
company" and that I have valued almost every year 
since. 
¨I have valued the company almost every year since, 
and between 2014 and 2018, each of those 
valuations came to almost thesameconclusions.
¤With each valuation, my story for the company expanded 
and my valuations increased, in small or large amounts.
¤Themarket price for the company jumped even more, 
leading me to conclude in each of these valuations that it 
was not a company that I would invest in.
4
ValuationCommonalities
¨ At its core, Tesla is an automobile company: Notwithstanding distractions, Tesla is, at its core, an 
automobile company, and while it will continue to derive revenues from batteries and perhaps even 
software, its pathway to becoming a trillion dollarmarket cap company still runs through the "car 
company" story.
¨ That has disrupted and reinvented the automobile business: It is the most 'uncar-like" automobile 
company in the world on two dimensions. 
¤ The first is onprofitability,where its operating cost structure, it's unconventional distribution model (which bypasses dealerships) 
and its capacity to augment revenues with related products and services, has given it an opening to deliver much higher margins.
¤ The second is oninvestment and capital intensity, where it has managed to take what critics pointed to as weaknesses 
(unwillingness to build large and expensive assembly plants ahead of time, to meet future demand) and made them into 
strengths. 
¨ While positioning itself well for structural shifts in the economy: Tesla's success over the last few years 
has also been fed by two other external forces. The first is ingovernment and business response to 
climate change, and it is undeniable that Tesla, especially in its early years, was a beneficiary of tax credits 
and other benefits meted out to electric cars. The second is therise of ride sharing, and while Tesla might 
not have directly benefited from this trend, it has opened uppossibilities for the future, especially around 
self-driving cars, that have added to the company's allure.
¨ Built around an outsized personality: Tesla and Musk are linked, in good and bad ways, and it is almost 
impossible to have a view on one, without having a view on the other . On the plus side, Musk is a 
visionary, who sees possibilities and is an evangelist for his visions, who draws true believers to his cause. 
On the other side of the ledger, Musk is unpredictable and prone to distractions that draw attention away 
from the company, and his impulses have created costs for the company and its investors. 
¨ Drawing extreme reactions: There are some who see Elon as the ultimate con man, and Tesla as a shell 
game. There are others who view him a savior, andmap out pathways for Tesla to become the most 
successful company of all time.
5
Teslain 2019and2020..
¨In June 2019, Tesla had hit a rough spot, partly due to concerns about 
production bottlenecks and debt, and partly due to self inflicted wounds, 
with Musk's tweets about going private, with funding secured, 
contributing to a sell off driving the stock down to $180 ($36 in today's 
split adjusted terms). Ivalued the company, with conservative 
assumptions about growth and margins, and incorporating my concerns 
about managerial missteps, at about $190: While the buffer (between 
value and price) was small, I did buy shares in the company.
¨Between June 2019 and January 2020, the stock went on a tear, as the 
stock price soared 250%, and I revisited my Tesla valuation. With a more 
expansive view of future growth and profitability, Irevalued Tesla in 
January 2020and more than doubled my valuation: I sold my shares then, 
and I know that many of you have pointed out how much money I have 
lost as a consequence ofthat sale, as the stock price has increased almost 
ten-fold since then, but I have never found second guessing and regrets to 
be useful emotions in investing.
6
Tesla: Stock Price History
7
Tesla: Financial History
8
The COVID Effect across companies
¨ Risk capital stayed in the game: If the most striking feature of last year's crisis was 
how quickly markets came back from the savage sell off between February 14 and 
March 23 of 2020, Iargued that the biggest reason for that come back was the 
resilience of private risk capital. Instead of withdrawing from markets, as in prior 
crises, venture capital investing, initial public offerings and investment in the 
riskiest segments of both stock and bond markets continued, and actually 
increased, through the rest of the year .
¨ Flexibility over Rigidity: While the overall market quickly recovered, the recovery 
was uneven, and the crisis left behind winners and losers.In this post, I argued 
that one of the key dividing lines between the two groups was flexibility, with 
companies with more flexible investing, financing and dividend policies winning 
out over companies with more rigidity on those dimensions. To be specific, 
service/technology companies gained at the expense of manufacturing & natural 
resource firms, debt-light b
¨ Young beat old: Another factor differentiating winners and losers was that, unlike 
prior crises, Inoted in this postthat young companies (early in their life cycles) 
benefited at the expense of mature and aging companies (with far more of their 
value coming from investments in place).
9
Tesla:ACOVID Winner
¨You could argue that if central casting were creating the 
perfect COVID winner, it would look a lot like Tesla, a young, 
adaptable company in a sector filled with dinosaurs, laden 
with expensive manufacturing facilities, large debt burdens 
and legacy dividend policies. 
¨In fact, many of what many (including me) considered to be 
weaknesses (make-shift manufacturing, seat-of-the-pants 
financing) in the pre-COVID age became strengths during 
COVID. 
¨While conventional automobile companies shuttered and 
scaled down manufacturing, Tesla continued to make and sell 
cars through the pandemic, and it is inarguable that it has 
come out of this crisis, far stronger than it was going into it.
10
Backed up by numbers…
11
Tesla: An Evolving Story
12
A Look Back: My 2013 Valuation Forecasts
13
Story Update for 2021
¨ Revenues: I do believe that Tesla will come out COVID with the potential for far more revenues than it did, going 
in. Specifically, Isee the potential for Tesla's revenues to approach $400 billion(translating into ten million plus 
cars sold annually) by 2032, making it significantly larger than Toyota or Volkswagen (currently about $300 billion 
in revenues).
¨ Profitability: While competition from legacy car companies and newcomers in the electric car space will act as a 
limit on profitability, I do feel that the target margins for Tesla will be far higher than the 10-12% that I have used 
historically. In fact,I will use a 16% pre-tax operating margin for Tesla by 2032, putting it in the top strata of 
profitability fomanufacturing companies. (Note that notwithstanding improvements over the last few years, the 
gross margin for Tesla stood at less than 30% in the third quarter of 2021, acting as a cap on operating margins.)
¨ Reinvestment: Starting with only their Fremont plant in 2013, Tesla has not only added capacity in lumps with 
assembly plants/giga factories in StoreyCounty (Nevada), Buffalo (New York), Shanghai (China), Berlin (Germany) 
and Austin (Texas), but has spent far less than I originally estimated that they would have to invest. Given that 
they now seem to have enough capacity to cover growth at least for the next three to four years, I will assume $4 
in revenues for every dollar of capital invested for the next five years, and $2.67 in revenues for every dollar of 
capital invested thereafter .
¨ Risk: When I valued Tesla last in early 2020, I used a cost of capital of 7%, reflecting a risk freerate of 1.75% and 
an equity risk premium of 5.2% for mature markets. In November 2021, the risk freerate is down to 1.56% and 
equity risk premiums have drifted to 4.62%, and the cost of capital for Tesla has declined as well, to 6%. Tesla's 
cash balance now exceeds its debt due, and the failure risk is low enough to be ignored.
¨ Management: Taking to heart how closely Tesla and Elon Musk are connected, one of my concerns with Tesla has 
always been the sheer unpredictability of Mr . Musk. This may be flirting with danger, but whether it is because he 
has learned from the past or because he has matured, after the birth of his son, Elon has been subdued in his 
social media communication and more focused on the company.
15
What’s your story?
¨Given my choice to sell shares in Tesla at precisely the wrong 
time (in January 2020) and my history of undershooting on 
value for the company, I am the last person you should be 
relying on for your Tesla investment judgments.
¨I welcome disagreement, from both directions, but rather 
than indulge in scatter shot debates about bits and pieces, 
let’s make it about the two key variables driving Tesla’s value:
16
Conclusion
¨In the last year and a half, Ihave heard from many of you about my 
decision to sell Tesla, and while I am thankful for your concern about my 
investment performance, there are a few of you who have asked me 
whether I was sorry that I had sold Tesla, just ahead of its stock run-up in 
the last year and a half. 
¤I would be lying if I said that I did not think about the money I could have made, by 
holding on, when the stock crossed atrillion-dollar market cap, but those 
secondthoughts have been fleeting and I have no accompanying regret. 
¤Like everyone else, I would rather make money on my investments, than lose 
money, but I would also rather leave money on the table and have an investment 
philosophy, flawed though it may be, than make money andend up without a core 
philosophy.
¨I can say with certainty that I will be back valuing Tesla some time in the 
future, either because it has crossed a new threshold or because it is in 
the news, for good and bad reasons. I will also predict thatTesla will be 
back in my portfolio some day in the future, but at a price that I can live 
with, as an investor.
