Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DiscountRateMyth4.pdf

DISCOUNT	RATE	MYTH	4:	IT	IS	A	
RECEPTACLE	FOR	ALL	YOUR	
HOPES	&	FEARS
2
The	Discount	Rate	as	a	receptacle..
• Management/Business	Quality:	Some	analysts	use	
discount	rates	to	bring	in	the	quality	of	management,	
pushing	down	discount	rates	for	what	they	perceive	as	
well-managed	firms	and	pushing	up	discount	rates	for	
poor	management.	
• Survival	Risk:	Venture	capitalists	pump	up	discount	rates	
to	compensate	themselves	for	failure	risk,	i.e.,	that	many	
of	the	firms	that	they	invest	in	will	not	make	it.	
• Double	Counting?	While	these	adjustments	may	seem	
intuitive,	they	are	dangerous	for	many	reasons:	you	can	
double	count	both	the	good	and	bad,	you	may	be	
adjusting	for	risks	you	should	not	be	and	biasing	your	
valuations.
3
The	Good	Stuff
• If	you	think	a	company	is	well	managed	and	well	run,	
should	it	have	a	lower	discount	rate?
¨ The	answer	is	no,	because	the	place	to	show	the	effects	of	
great	management	or	strong	barriers	to	entry	is	in	the	cash	
flows	(as	higher	current	cash	flows,	higher	excess	returns	
and	more	valuable	growth).
¨ Note	that	you	will	get	a	higher	value	for	a	well-managed	
firm.	You	just	won’t	be	double	counting	that	value.
¨ Even	the	intuition	that	better	management	is	less	
risky	is	not	solid.
4
¨ Consider	two	companies	with	vastly	different	
management	in	the	same	business.	
¤ Company	A,	with	“high	quality” managers	in	place	is	aggressive	
in	its	pursuit	of	growth	while	also	being	discriminating,	a	rare	
combination	that	delivers	an	expected	operating	margin	of	8%,	
with	high	variability,	with	margins	ranging	from	5%	to	11%.	
¤ Company	B	has	a	management	team	whose	governing	style	is	
inertia,	delivering	sub-par	margins	of	3%	but	with	much	less	
variability	(2.5%	- 3.5%).	
¨ In	this	example,	company	A	will	have	a	higher	cost	of	
capital	than	company	B	but	with	its	higher	cash	flows,	it	
will	also	be	worth	a	great	deal	more.
5
The	Bad	Stuff
Type of Risk Distinction Effect on value
Estimation versus
Economic
Estimation risk is risk that reflects input errors that you are making as an
analyst because you are not using the information that you have about
the firm. Economic risk is risk that comes from the firm or the
macroeconomic environment that cannot be eliminated by collecting
more information or processing it better.
Most risk in valuation is economic risk and
since there is little that you can do to make it
go away, you (as an investor or analyst) can
only demand compensation in the form of a
risk premium and move on.
Micro versus Macro Micro risk is related to the company and its competitive environment
and thus reflects your expectations of how its management will perform
and competitive developments that may affect the company’s standing
(in good or bad ways). Macro risk also affects the company but it comes
from macroeconomic forces (commodity prices, interest rates,
economic growth and inflation).
If you are valuing a company for a diversified
investor, it is only macroeconomic risk that is
incorporated into your discount rate. If the
valuation is to an undiversified investor, some
or all of the micro risk also has to find its way
into the discount rate.
Continuous versus
Discrete
If a company is exposed to a risk continuously, as is the case when a
company has foreign operations in a floating rate currency, your cash
flows and value will change continuously as well. If the risk is discrete, as
is the case when the foreign operations are in a fixed-rate currency
subject to infrequent revaluations, your value may be unaffected for
long periods before undergoing a large change.
Discount rates are designed to capture
continuous risks better than discrete risks,
especially when the latter are large and
potentially catastrophic.
6
The	Risk	in	the	Discount	Rate
¨ Going	concern	risk:	A	DCF	is	a	going	concern	concept	
and	the	discount	rate	is	designed	to	capture	risks	to	
a	going	concern.
¨ Diversified	investors? If	the	investors	in	this	company	
are	diversified,	that	effectively	means	that	the	only	
risks	that	should	show	up	in	your	discount	rate	are	
macroeconomic	and	continuous	risks.
¨ Truncation	risk? If	you	are	exposed	to	large	amount	
of	estimation	risk,	company-specific	risk	or	
truncation	risk,	the	discount	rate	is	not	a	good	
receptacle	for	these.
7
Estimation	Risk	and	Micro	(Company-
specific)	Risks
¨ With	estimation	risk,	you	have	to	learn	to	let	go.	As	
long	as	you	are	just	wrong	(and	not	biased),	your	
estimation	mistakes	will	average	out	over	time	on	
your	investments.
¨ With	company-specific	risks,	you	should	be	
incorporating	the	outcomes	into	your	expected	cash	
flow.	This	is,	of	course,	not	a	risk	adjustment	but	an	
expected	value.	If	you	are	diversified,	these	risks	will	
average	out	across	your	portfolio.	If	not,	you	do	
need	to	consider	how	to	bring	them	into	your	
discount	rate.
8
A	Better	Way	of	Dealing	with	Truncation	
Risk
¨ If	your	firm	is	exposed	to	nationalization	risk,	
regulatory	shut	down	or	catastrophic	failure,	your	
discount	rate	is	ill-equipped	to	convey	this	risk.	
¨ Though	these	risks	do	not	show	up	in	the	discount	
rates,	they	will	still	affect	value.	To	me,	the	best	tool	
for	bringing	in	the	effects	of	truncation	risk	is	
through	a	decision	tree.
9
The	Distractions
¨ The	Margin	of	Safety:	This	is	the	alternative	that	some	
value	investors	offer	to	discount	rates.	Since	the	margin	
of	safety	requires	a	value	and	a	price	to	use,	it	is	clearly	
not	an	alternative,	since	you	need	a	discount	rate	to	get	
to	value.
¨ Doing	your	homework	won’t	make	most	risk	go	away:	
No,	using	more	data	and	doing	more	research	is	not	
going	to	make	risk	go	away.	The	only	risk	that	is	affected	
is	estimation	risk.
¨ Screening	for	Risk:	Screening	for	safe	assets	(cash	flows,	
liquidity,	book	value)	is	a	pricing	tool,	not	a	valuation	
tool.
10
A	Template	for	Risk	Adjusting	Value
Expected Cash Flows Risk-adjusted 
Discount Rate Value
Company Speciﬁc Risks 
get reﬂected in the 
expected cash ﬂows
Discount rate is adjusted for only the 
risk that cannot be diversiﬁed away 
(macro economic risk) by marginal 
investor
get discounted at to get Adjusted Value
Discrete risks (distress, nationalization, 
regulatory approval etc.) are brought in 
through probabilities and value 
consequences.
And probability 
adjusted to 
arrive at
For a public company
Company Speciﬁc Risks 
get reﬂected in the 
expected cash ﬂows
Discount rate is adjusted (upwards) 
to reﬂect all risk that the investor in 
the private business is exposed to.
Discrete risks (distress, nationalization, 
regulatory approval etc.) are brought in 
through probabilities and value 
consequences.
Business Macro 
Risk Exposure
Country Macro 
Risk Exposure
Beta Country Risk Premium
Probability of 
discrete event
Value if event 
occursImplicit in 
numbers
Explicit (Senario 
analysis or 
Simulation)
Beta adjusted for 
total risk
Risk premium adjusted for 
company-speciﬁc risk
For a private business
Can be
X
