Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Disclosure.pdf

DISCLOSURE DILEMMA: WHEN 
MORE (DATA) ≠ MORE 
INFORMATION!
Lessismore!
2
Anageofinformation?
¨Bigger filings: In the last few decades, as disclosure 
requirements for publicly traded firms have increased, annual 
reports and regulatory filings have become heftier. 
¨Changing companies, Changing rules: Some of this surge can 
be attributed to companies becoming more complex and 
geographically diversified, but much of it can be traced to 
increased disclosure requirements from accounting rule 
writers and market regulators. 
¨Moreisbetter: Driven by the belief that more disclosure is 
always better for investors, each market meltdown and 
corporate scandal has given rise to new reporting additions. 
¨But is it? I look at why well-meaning attempts to help 
investors have had the perverse effect of leaving them more 
confused and lost than ever before.
3
Time Trends in Reporting
¨ Until the early 1900s, reporting by public companies was meager, varied 
widely across firms, anddepended largely on the whims of managers.  It took 
theGreat Depression forthe New York Stock Exchange towake up to the 
need for improved and standardized disclosurerequirements, and for the 
government to create a regulatory body, the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC). The SEC was created by the Securities Act of 1933, and 
augmented by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, covering secondary 
trading of securities. 
¨ Almost in parallel, accounting as a profession found its footing and worked on 
creating rules that would apply to reporting, at least at publicly traded 
companies, with GAAP making its appearance in 1933. In the years since, 
disclosure requirements have changed and expanded, with companies in 
foreign markets creating their own rules in IFRS. 
¨ I will focus on two filings that companies make with the SEC.
¤ The first is the 10-K, an annual filing that all US publicly traded companies have tomake.
¤ The second is the S-1, a prospectus that private companies planning to go public have tofile.
4
The Increasing 10-K?Coca Cola as an 
example
5
Across10-Ks: Evidence from a study of 
10Ks (1996-2013)
6
Update on 10-K Word Count, through 
2017…
7
As 10-Ks get bigger, readability has 
suffered…
8
The Primary Culprit(s) behind the Surge!
9
And the bloat-causing topics…
10
Moving on to the S-1: They’ve clearly 
become bigger…
11
But they have not become more 
informative…
¨ Morewords,lessclarity? Airbnb, in its final prospectus, before its initial public 
offering asserted that there would 47.36 million class A and 490.89 million class B 
shares, after its offering, but then added that this share count excluded not only 
30.87 million options on class A shares and 13.79 million options on class B 
shares, but also 37.51 million restricted stock units, subject to service and vesting 
requirements. While this is technically "disclosure", note that the key question of 
why restricted stock units are being ignored in share count is unanswered.
¨ Big Story Pieces, no details: The second is that companies have used the SEC's 
restrictions on making projections to their advantage, to tell big stories about 
value, while holding back details. For some companies, a key metric that is 
emphasized is the total addressable market (TAM), a critical number in 
determining value, but one that can be stretched to mean whatever you want it 
to, with little accountability built in. In 2019, Uber claimed that its TAM was $5.2 
trillion, counting in all car sales and mass transit in that number, and Airbnb 
contended that its TAM was $3.4 trillion, five times larger than the entire hotel 
market's revenues in that year .
¨ Creative framing: Finally, while most companies, that are on the verge of going 
public, lose money and burn through cash, they have found creative ways of 
recomputing or adjusting earnings to make it look like they are making money.
12
So,whyisaddeddisclosurenothelping
investors/traders?
¨Information Overload: Company filings are becoming data dumps, and as 
the dumps get bigger, finding relevant information gets more difficult, 
leading perversely to mental short-cuts.
¨Feedbackloop:Forsomecompanies,disclosurehasbecomeanexcusefor
adoptingrules/practices, especially on corporate governance, thatare
patentlyunfairtoshareholders, and then disclosing these rules/practices. 
¨WrongAudience(s): Regulators seem to be unclear about the audience 
that they are catering to, in their disclosures. Governments, consumers, 
shareholders and bankers require disclosure from companies, buttheir
disclosureneedsareverydifferent.Cramming them all into one report 
creates chaos.
¨Backward Looking: The disclosure rules, at least as written currently, 
require extensive revelations about the past, but severely limit forward-
looking statements.
¨MissionConfusion:Is the end game protecting investors or is it informing 
them?
13
1. Information Overload
¨Distractions: The human mind is easily distracted and as 
filings get longer and more rambling, it is easy to lose sight of 
the mission on hand and get lost on tangents. 
¨Confusing small and big: As disclosures mount up on multiple 
dimensions, it is worth remembering that not all details 
matter equally. Put simply, sifting though the details that 
matter from the many data points that do not becomes more 
difficult, when you have 250 pages in a 10-K or S1 filing. 
¨Mental Short Cuts: Behavioral research indicates that as 
people are inundated with more data, their minds often shut 
down and they revert backto simplistic decision-making tools 
that throw out much or all ofthe data designed to help them 
on that decision.
14
2. Catertoyouraudience
15
3. Future, not past!
¨Much of regulatory rule making is about forcing companies to 
reveal what has happened in their past, and while I would not take 
issue with that, I do take issue with the restrictions that disclosure 
laws put on forecasting the future. 
¨With the prospectus, for instance, I find it odd that companies are 
tightly constrained on what they can say about their future, butcan 
wax eloquently about what has happened in the past. 
¨Is it possible that they will exaggerate their strengths and minimize 
their weaknesses? Of course, but investors know that already and 
can make their own corrections to these forecasts. 
¨More importantly, stopping companies from making these 
forecasts does not block others (analysts, market experts, sales 
people), often less scrupulous and less informed than the 
companies, from making their own forecasts.
16
4. Mission Confusion
¨While it is easy to argue that you should do both, 
regulators have todecide which mission takes 
primacy, and from my perspective, it looks like 
protection is often given the lead position. 
¨Not surprisingly, it follows that disclosures become 
risk averse and lawyerly, and that companies follow 
templates that are designed to keep them on the 
straight and narrow, rather than ones that are more 
creative and focused on telling their business stories 
to investors.
17
DisclosureFirstPrinciples
¨ Less is more: I do think that most regulators and investors are aware that we are well past the point of 
diminishing returns on more disclosure, and that disclosures need slimming down. 
¤ TheBig 3: The risk profile, internal control and fair value/impairment sections need to be drastically reduced, and one 
way to prune is to ask investors (not accountants or lawyers) whether they find these disclosures useful. 
¤ One in, one out: I would use a rule that has stood me in good stead, when trying to keep my clothes from overflowing 
my limited closet space, in the disclosure space. When a new disclosure is added, an old one of equivalent length has 
tobe eliminated. 
¤ Words test: Any disclosures that draw disproportionately on boilerplate language need to be shrunk or even 
eliminated.
¨ Don't forget traders: Rather than adopt a laissez fare approach, and let companies choose to provide 
these numbers, often on their own terms and with little oversight, it may make more sense that 
disclosure requirements on pricing and peer groups be more specific, allowing for different metrics in 
different sectors.
¨ Let companies tell stories and make projections:The idea that allowing companies to make projections 
and fill in details about what they see in their future will lead to misleading and even fraudulent claims 
does not give potential buyers of its shares enough credit for being able to make their own judgments.
¨ With triggered disclosures: To the extent that some companies want to tell stories built around non-
financial metrics like users, subscribers, customers or download, let them,butany company that wants to 
build its story around its user or subscriber numbers (Uber, Netflix and Airbnb) will have to then provide 
full information about these users and subscribers (user acquisition costs, churn/renewal rates, cohort 
tables etc.)
