Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Tesla2019.pdf

TESLA: CURFEW FOR A CORPORATE 
TEENAGER?
Aswath Damodaran
2
In the news again..
¨ A news magnet: Tesla is back in the news, though 
this time for all of the wrong reasons. 
¨ Distractions galore: From Musk's Twitter escapades 
with the SEC, to talk about electric lawn blowers to 
concerns about a debt death spiral, the company has 
managed, yet again, to get in its own way and this 
time it has paid a price in the market, as its stock 
price tests lows not seen in a couple of years.
3
Looking back: My Tesla valuation in June 
2018
4
The Valuation bottom line in June 2018
¨ I listed possible, perhaps even plausible, scenarios 
where Tesla's value per share could be higher than 
$400/share, but argued that it would require the 
equivalent of a royal flush for the company to get 
there, a combination of a ten-fold increase in 
revenues, an operating margin of 12% and 
reinvesting more like a technology than an 
automotive company. 
¨ Since the stock was trading at close $360 at the time 
of the valuation, I concluded that it was significantly 
over valued.
5
Funding Secured?
¨ The tweet: Elon Musk roiled the waters in August 2018 
with his now infamous tweet about funding being 
secured for a $420 buyout of the stock, causing a surge 
in the stock price
¨ The push back: Questions arose about both how secured 
the funding actually was and whether the $420 price 
itself was fiction. 
¨ In my post on the topic, I argued that if you were a 
private equity investor interested in taking a company 
private, Tesla would be a poor target, given its need for 
capital to keep growing, its heavy debt burden and the 
presence of Elon Musk as CEO.
6
Catching up: The Good News since June
2018
¨ Revenue Surge: In the drama around production targets 
and logistical misses, it is easy to lose sight of the fact 
that the Tesla 3 has caused the company to almost 
double revenues over the course of the last year, while 
easily winning the race for best selling electric car in the 
world.
¨ Improving Profitability: While Musk's tweets about Tesla 
turning earnings positive may have been premature, the 
company has moved down the pathway to profitability, 
reducing operating losses and with R&D capitalized, 
perhaps even turning the corner on operating 
profitability.
7
The Bad News
¨ Debt load and Distress: When Tesla chose to add to its debt burden 
by borrowing $5 billion in 2017, Iargued that there was no good 
reason for Tesla to borrow money. Tesla has since added to that 
debt and in June 2019, that debt, now close to $14 billion, is 
revealing its dark side, as a bond price plunge and ratings 
downgrades threaten to put Tesla's growth story at risk.
¨ Reinvestment Lags: Growth requires reinvestment, and especially 
so for automobile companies, where assembly lines and logistical 
infrastructure need to be put in place for cars to be delivered to 
customers. It is both frustrating and puzzling that Tesla, a company 
with a loyal customer base that is willing to wait, has been 
unwilling to make the investments that it needs to meet the 
demand. Instead, the company seems to lurch from one production 
crisis to another one while its CEO muddies the water further 
by arguing that the company is not just earnings positive but cash 
flow positive.
8
The Gobsmackers…
¨ SEC Oversight: If there has been a recurring story over the past year, it has 
to do with the aftermath of Elon Musk's "funding secured" tweet, which 
led to a SEC investigation and a threat of sanctions on the company. While 
the companycame to a settlement wit the SEC, that settlement requires 
restraint on the part of Musk on future disclosures to the market 
(especially in the form on tweets), and restrain is not a Musk strong point.
¨ Autonomous Cars: In April 2019, Muskunveiled a plan to roll out 
autonomous taxis, with Tesla owners being allowed to add to the 
network, in the near future, with the promise that Tesla's technology on 
auto driving was well ahead of the competition. There is a debate worth 
having about autonomous cars and how they will change the ride sharing 
business, but it is almost certain that this will not happen smoothly or 
soon.
¨ The Rest: This being Tesla, there were the weekly distractions as Musk 
muddied the waters with talk ofelectric leaf blowersand insurance 
products.
9
Updating Tesla’s story
¨ Same story: Bringing together everything that has happened at 
Tesla over the last year, I find myself telling the same story that I 
told about Tesla a year ago, of a company that would find a 
pathway to revenues of $100 billion in 2028, with strong operating 
margins, remains intact, with one notable change. 
¨ More danger: The company's debt overhang, already a concern a 
year ago, has become a clear and present danger to the company. 
In effect, on an operating basis, the company is and it faces more 
truncation risk (a chance of failure of 20%).
¨ A Corporate Teenager? As I watched Musk repeatedly put Tesla's 
story and value at risk with his distractions, I was reminded of 
teenagers around the world, with immense potential (and 
intelligence) who risk it all for a momentary and meaningless rush, 
leading me to attach the corporate teenager label to the company.
11
A Comparison: Tesla in June 2018 vs June 
2019
12
The Tesla Divergence..
14
The ARK Pricing of Tesla
15
The ARK Tesla Pricing
¨ This is a pricing, not a valuation: An intrinsic valuation 
requires forecasting cash flows over time, after taxes and 
reinvestment, and then discounting those cash flows back at 
a rate that reflects the risk in the investment. ARK's basic 
model forecasts revenues, earnings and other metrics in 
2023, and applying a multiple to their estimated EBITDAR&D 
in 2023.
¨ The bear is frisky: The ARK bear case requires that Tesla will 
sell 1.7 million cars in 2023, at an average price of 
$50,000/car and generate an operating margin of 6.1% on 
those revenues. Each of these assumptions is plausible, and 
the combination is possible, though to call a seven fold 
increase in revenues over five years, with a concurrent 
improvement to industry average profitability, a bear case.
16
The Weakest Link: Reinvestment and Cash 
Flow
17
Flowing into share count…
¨ Not enough capital raised: ARK does allow for an equity 
capital raise of $10.6 billion, but reduces the impact on share 
count by assuming a stock price of $360/share (market cap 
will be $70 billion) at the time of the raise. 
¨ At too high a price? Since this capital will have to be raised 
soon, there is an element of wishful thinking here, the stock 
prices will double in short order and the capital raise will 
follow.
¨ Option overhang: If stock prices do climb, as ARK assumes 
there will there is an overhang of 22 million options that have 
been granted to Musk by the board of directors that will 
become actual shares. In short, for the ARK bear case to 
unfold, the share count will have to double over the next five 
years.
18
The ARK pricing: Summing up
¨ The bear case: Even if you take the ARK bear case as realistic, with 
Tesla projected to sell 1.7 million cars in 2023 and earn operating 
margins close to the auto sector, the pricing per share that you get 
will be closer to $200-$250/share, with a more realistic share count 
and time value adjustments, not the $560 that you see on the ARK 
spreadsheet. 
¨ The bull case:  I will leave it untouched, since it is more fairy tale 
than valuation, a world where there will be 7.2 autonomous cars 
are on the road in 2023, with Tesla controlling a 70% market share, 
and generating $52 billion in annual cash flows. I am willing to 
accept the argument that Tesla is closer to mastering the 
autonomous car technology than its competitors, but I see a 
business that is further in the future than 2023, less dominated by 
Tesla and much less profitable than ARK does. In short, right now, it 
is more option than cash flow value added right now.
19
My bottom line
¨ I’ve been wrong on Tesla before: I did my first valuation of Tesla in 2013, 
and undershot the mark , partly because I saw its potential market as 
smaller (luxury autos) and partly because I have under estimated how 
much it would be able to extract in production from the Fremont plant. 
¨ And I have triedto correct: Over time, I have compensated for both 
mistakes, giving Tesla access to a bigger (albeit still upscale) market and 
more growth, while reinvesting less than the typical auto company. 
¨ A Turning Point?In spite of these adjustments, I have consistently come 
up with valuations well below the price, finding the stock to be valued at 
about half its price only a year ago. This year marks a turning point, as I 
find Tesla to be under valued, albeit by only a small fraction. Even in the 
midst of my most negative posts on Tesla, I argued that I like the company 
and that I would one day own the stock. That day may be here, as I put in 
a limit buy order at $180/share knowing fully well that like my children in 
their teenage years, this company will test my patience and sanity.
