Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BrandName2024.pdf

JUST DO IT! BRAND NAMEWOES 
AT NIKE?
Allaboutpricing power!
2
Lessons fromShoeDog!
¨I have spent the last week reading "Shoe Dog", Phil Knight's 
memoir of how he went from a runner on the Oregon University 
track team to building Nike to be one of the great shoe companies 
in the world. 
¤In addition to its entertainment value, I read the book for two storylines. The first is 
the time, effort and grit that it took to build a business, in a world where risk capital 
was more difficult to access than it has been in this century, and in a business 
where scaling up posed significant challenges. 
¤The second is the building of a brand name, with a mix of happy accidents (from 
the naming of the company to the creation of the swoosh as the company's 
symbol), timing and luck all playing a role in creating one of the great brand names 
in apparel and footwear . 
¨The latter assessment led a more general consideration of what 
constitutes a brand name, what makes a brand name valuable (or 
not) and what causes brand name values to deplete and disappear 
over time.
3
Brand Name: What is it?
¨The broadest definition of a brand name is that it is recognized (by 
employees, consumers and the market) and remembered, either because 
of familiarity (because of brand name longevity) or association (with 
advertising or a celebrity). 
¨That definition, though, is not particularly useful since remembering or 
recognizing a brand, by itself, tells you nothing about its value. 
¨The essence of brand name value is that the recognition or remembrance 
of a brand name changes how people behave in its presence. 
¤ With customers, brand name recognition can manifest itself in buying choices (affecting 
revenues and revenue growth) or willingness to pay a higher price (higher profit margins). 
¤ With capital providers, it may allow for lower funding costs, with equity investors pricing 
equity higher and lenders accepting lower interest rates and/or fewer lending covenants. 
¤ With other stake holders (employees, suppliers, even competitors), it may play out to your 
benefit as well as lower costs, higher revenues and less risk.
4
BrandNameVariants
¨Brand names can attach to entirecompanies, to particular 
productsor brands or even to personnel and people. 
¤With a company like Coca Cola, it is the corporate brand name that has 
the most power, but the soft drink beverages marketed by the 
company (Coca Cola, Fanta, Sprite, Dasani etc.) each have their own 
brand names. 
¤With companies like Unilever, the corporate brand name takes a back 
seat to the brands names of the dozens of products controlled by the 
company, which include Dove (soap), Axe (deodorant), Hellman's 
(mayonnaise) and Close-up (toothpaste). 
¤There are clearly cases of people with significant brand name value, in 
sports (Ohtaniin baseball, Messi in soccer, Kohli in cricket) and 
entertainment (Taylor Swift), with a spill over to the entities that 
attach themselves to these people.
5
Brand Names and other competitive 
advantages
6
Brand Name Value
7
Pure Pricing Power in Brand Name
8
Valuing Brand Name: The Easy Route
¨The Tylenol example also serves to illustrate when it 
is easiest to value brand name, i.e., when it is the 
only competitive advantage, and when it will 
become difficult to do, i.e., when it is one of many 
competitive advantages. 
¨It is for that reason that valuing brand name is easier 
to do at a beverage or cereal company, such as Coca 
Cola or Kellogg’s, where there is little to differentiate 
across products other than brand name, and you can 
attribute the higher margins almost entirely to brand 
name.
10
Valuing Coca Cola’s brand name
11
Valuing Brand Name: The Complex Route
¨Brand names become more difficult to isolate and value, 
when a company has multiple competitive advantages, since 
the higher margins or growth or returns on capital will reflect 
the composite effect of all ofthe advantages.
¨Thus, with a company like Apple, where brand name is a 
factor, as is a proprietary operating system, a superior styling 
and a unique app ecosystem, the higher margin can be 
attributed to a multitude of factors, making it more difficult, 
perhaps even impossible, to isolate the brand name value.
¨That is why I remain skeptical of the brand name measurers 
of the world (like Interbrand) and of accounting attempts to 
isolate and value brand name, to show on balance sheets.
12
TheBirkenstockIPO
13
Nike: The Brand Name Effect
14
Nike Valuation
¨You can see why Nike acted swiftly to change its CEO, since its 
value will dip substantially, if its growth stays down and 
margins do not bounce back. 
¨At the $71 stock price that the stock was trading at, just six 
weeks ago, the investing odds would have been in your favor, 
but the bounce back in the stock price to $88, after the new 
CEO hire, suggests that the market is pricing in the 
expectation that the company will bounce back to higher 
growth and better margins.
15
Brand Name Creation
¨Brand name does add value, if it gives the company that 
owns it pricing power, but how does a company end up with a 
valuable brand name. 
¨There are facile answersand they include history, with long-
lived companies having more recognizable brand names, and 
advertising, where more spending is assumed to result in a 
more valuable brand name. 
¨To see why I attach the "facile" prefix to these answers, 
consider again the example of AT&T, a company that has been 
around for more than a century and remains one of the ten 
largest spenders on advertising in the United States. None of 
that spending has translated into a significant brand name 
value, thought there may other benefits that the company 
accrues.
16
Ingredients in Brand Creation
1. Attachment to an emotional factor/need: Rational or not, consumers may reach 
for a branded product, because they associate the product 
withfreedom,reliability,happiness,patriotismoraspiration, if that association 
exists in their minds. 
2. Celebrityconnection:Earlier,wetalkedaboutpersonalbrandnames,andargued
thatNikebenefitedfromitsassociationwithMichaelJordan,inbuildingitsbrand
name.Infact,Apple(initsstreamingservice)andMajorLeagueSoccerbenefited
mightilyfromLionelMessiplayingInterleaveMiami.
3. Fortuitousevents/choices:Thereisathirdfactorthatisnotcoveredinmostbrand
namemanagementclasses,andforgoodreason,andthatistheeffectofluckor
choicesthatplayoutinunpredictableways.(Nike’sswoosh,symbolandnameare
allaccidental)
4. Advertising:Whiletheremaybelittleornolinkbetweenoveralladvertising
spendingandbrandname,itisundeniablethatthereareadsthatcatchpeople's
attentionandalterperceptionsofaproduct.Nikehashaditsshareoficonic
commercials,andIstillrememberthisNikead,withMichaelJordan,from1997,
showinghowlongtheshelflifecanbeforagreatad.
17
The Trade Off on Brand Name
¨Ifaskedtoadviceacompanythatwasintentoncreatingabrand
name,mysuggestionwouldbetostartwithaproductorservice
thatisdifferentiatedfromthecompetition,andtogivethebrand
nametimetobuildaroundthatdifferentiation.
¨Thatmayrequiresacrificesonscalingup(acceptinglessgrowthto
preservetheproductdifferential),ahighercoststructure(ifitisa
qualitydifference)andperhapsevenmorereinvestment,buttrade
offsareinherenttoalmosteverythingofvalueinbusiness.
¨Iftheexpectedcostsofbuildingabrandnameexceeditsbenefits,
though,itmaybeworthaskingwhetherbrandnameisthe
competitiveadvantagethatthecompanyshouldbeaspiringfor,
sincethereareothercompetitiveadvantagesthatcanaddasmuch
ormuchmorevalueinthebusinessthecompanyoperatesin.
18
Brand Name Destruction
1. Agingbrand/consumerbase:Eventhemosthighlyregardedbrandnames
eventuallyage,andnomatterhowmuchmanagerstrytoresurrectthem,
theyneverrecovertheirmojo.
2. Benignneglect:Brandnamesmayprovidesustainablecompetitive
advantages,butthecompaniesowningthemneedtospendthemoneyto
maintainthem.Therearelegendarybrandnamesthathaveeffectivelybeen
neglected,treatedascashcowswithnonewinvestmentorsprucingup
needed,andhavefadedinvalue.
3. Culturalchanges:Thereareproductsandservicesthathavelosttheirallure
overtime,becausetheculturalmoresorsocialnormsoftheconsumershas
changed.
4. Changingtastes:Therearesomebusinesses,wherethedemandforproducts
istransientandfad-driven,andnewbrandsreplaceoldones,astastesshift.
5. Toxicconnections:Abrandnamethatisbuiltupovertimecansometimes
veryquicklyfallbacktoearth,ifthecompanyoritspersonnelbringtoxic
connections.
19
Brand Reincarnation…
Aswath Damodaran
19
¨It is worth noting that there are companies that have 
redeemed brand name value, sometimes by remaking 
the product or service, sometimes by repackaging it and 
sometimes by repositioning it.
¤Crocs, whose brand name soared in the 2000s, but crashed by 
the end of the decade, repackaged itself around celebrity 
endorsements to become a successful brand again. 
¤Lego, a venerable brand name in the toy business, sold off its 
theme parks, and refocused attention on its core product, while 
redirecting its offerings to adults.
¨Ingeneral, though, reincarnating a brand becomes easier 
for niche brands than for widely used ones, for product 
brands than for company brands, and for younger brands 
than for older ones.
20
Nike: A Wake-up Call!
¨Inthepost-COVIDyears,Nikedidshiftawayfromstoresalesto
digitalsales,withNikeDigital,accountingforalmost43%of
revenuesin2022.Whilethatshiftmayreflectachangein
consumerpreferencestowardsshoppingonline,thereisaquestion
ofhowmuchshoestores,overthedecades,havecontributedto
theNikebrand,byhighlightingtheirmosticonicshoes.
¨Whilethefootwearbusinesshasbeenmoreresistanttofadsthan
theapparelbusiness,Nikeislosingmarketshare,especiallyamong
youngercustomers,tonewcomersinthespacelikeOnandHoka,
andamongrunners(Nike'soriginalcoremarket)toolder
companieslikeNewBalancethathaverediscoveredtheirmojo.
¨Inanagewherecelebritiescomewithproblems,andpolitics
dividesusoneventhemosttrivialofissues,Nike'scelebrity-driven
advertisingcampaignsmayhurtmorethanhelpthecompany.
