Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2022.pdf

DATA UPDATE 5 FOR 2022: RISK 
AND HURDLE RATES!
The Proverbial Bottom Line
2
The End Game…
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨The proverbial bottom line for success in a business is its 
capacity to deliver profits. Even though we live in an age 
where trillion dollar total addressable markets and hyper 
revenue growth can drive company valuations, that adage 
remains true. 
¨Questions about profitability seem to have taken center place 
again, not only because a market pull back is a reminder that 
growth, by itself, cannot deliver value, but also that there are 
debates about how much damage the COVID crisis did to 
earnings power at companies, and whether this damage has 
been healed, as economies have opened up. 
¨In this session, I will look at corporate profitability, in all its 
different dimensions, and how companies across the globe, 
and across industries, measured up in the most recent years.
3
Measuring Profitability
Aswath Damodaran
3
¨The question of whether a company is making or losing 
money should be a simple one to answer, especially in an 
age where accounting statements are governed by a 
myriad of rules, and a legion of number-crunchers follow 
these rules to report the profits generated by a firm 
during the most recent period. 
¨In practice, though, measuring profitability is anything 
but straightforward, as accountants have devised 
multiple measures of profitability, with discretion on 
how to compute each one, and many different ways of 
scaling profits, for comparisons.
4
Accounting Profits
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
And the numbers in 2021…
6
With time trends…
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Profit Margins
8
Margin Distribution: Global
9
Margins, across sectors
10
Margins, by region
11
Return on Investment, by Perspective…
12
Accounting Returns: Global Distribution
13
Implications
¨From buzzwords to numbers: Consultants and business 
experts love to invent buzzwords that they get 
businesses to pay immense amounts for, often with no 
accountability. For many buzzwords, profitability is the 
ultimate test.
¨Corporate life cycle and profits: As companies move 
through the life cycle (from start up to decline), their 
margins move accordingly.
¨The value of growth: Growth is not an unalloyed good. It 
can add, do nothing or detract from value and 
profitability gives us a way us to derive that value.
14
1. Buzzwords and Profitability
Buzzword Profitability Effect Reasoning
Powerful Brand  NameHigher operating profit margins, 
relative to peer group
Brand name allows you to charge higher 
price for the same products.
Economies of scale Operating margin improves as 
revenues increase Costs grow at a slower rate than revenues
Superior unit 
economics
High gross margins Extra unit costs little to produce, relative 
to price.
Strong competitive 
advantages
High return on capital, relative to 
peer group
Barriers to entry earn and sustain high 
returns
Canny borrowing High return on equity, relative to 
return on capital
Benefits from difference between return 
on capital and after-tax cost of debt.
Tax player
After-tax operating income is 
close to pre-tax operating income
Lower effective tax rate, across all 
income.
15
2. Corporate Life Cycle and Profitability
16
Corporate Age and Profitability
17
US Tech Companies: Aging in Dog Years
18
The Value of Growth: Excess Returns
19
Global Excess Returns in 2021
20
1. Low Hurdle Rate ≠ Positive Excess 
Returns
¨Close to 57% of firms globally earn returns lower than 
their funding costs, and while this may be temporary for 
some, it has become a permanent feature for many 
businesses. 
¨The notion that lower interest rates, and the resulting 
lower hurdle rates that companies face, has made 
business easier is clearly not supported by the facts. 
¨If anything, as rates have decreased over the last decade, 
and costs of capital for companies hit historic lows, 
companies are finding it more difficult to create value, 
not less.
21
2. Good and Bad Businesses
22
3. Disruption’s Dark Side
¨There are businesses like entertainment, historically 
good businesses that have seen their business models 
disrupted, by new entrants into the business. 
¨While this is a phenomenon that has played out in 
business after business, over the last two decades, there 
are observations that I will make, based upon seeing the 
excess returns in disrupted businesses. 
¤Disruption, almost invariably, leads to lower returns for the 
status quo, i.e., the disrupted companies in the business, but 
disruptors often don't end up with high returns either . 
¤Put bluntly, disruption is easy, but making money on disruption 
is difficult, and disruption creates lots of losers, but does not 
necessarily replace them with winners.
