Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate6for2026.pdf

The Business End Game!
§Crass and mercantile though this may sound, the end game for 
a business is to make money, and a business that fails this 
simple test cannot survive for long, no matter how noble its 
social mission, how great its products are and how much its 
customers and employees love it. 
§In this session, I look at business profitability, relative to 
revenues, and why profit margins vary across businesses and 
sectors. 
§I then raise the ante and argue that making money is too low a 
standard to hold companies to, since the capital invested in 
these companies can generate returns elsewhere, opening the 
door to bringing in the opportunity costs (costs of equity and 
capital) that Iintroduced in my last post.
§In 1970,Milton Friedmanargued in a New Y ork Times 
articlethat the social responsibility of a business is to deliver 
(and increase) profits. 
§That view has come under attack in recent decades, but even in 
the immediate aftermath of the article’s appearance, there was 
some push back. 
§Some came from people who argued that Friedman was missing 
details, with a few noting that it is cashflows, not earnings, that 
businesses should focus on, and others arguing that it is profits over 
the long term, not just immediate profits, that should be the focus of 
a business. 
§My guess is that Professor Friedman would have agreed on both 
fronts, arguing that he was talking about economic, not accounting, 
profits, and that there was nothing that foreclosed a focus on long 
term profits.
§In the decades since, there has been a more fundamental critique of the 
Friedman business end game, coming from those who believe that his 
view is far too cramped and narrow a vision of what a business should do, 
and that businesses have obligations to society and the planet that 
need to be incorporated into decision-making. 
§Later, though, these critics decided to go for the jugular, arguing that the 
business objective itself be reframed to include these broader 
responsibilities, with some arguing for stakeholder wealth 
maximization, where businesses seek to maximize value to their 
different stakeholders (employees, lenders, customers). 
§About two decades ago, stakeholder wealth maximization was 
supplemented by ESG, an acronym that quickly got buy-in from the 
establishment. 
§In the last five years, ESG has fallen out of favor, largely undone by its own 
internal inconsistencies, but the gravy train that lived off its largesse has 
moved on, and taken much of what filled the ESG space, repackaged it, 
and renamed it sustainability.
§After decades of pushback from critics of the Friedman 
business end game, it is time that we acknowledge that Milton 
Friedman was right, and to follow up and ask the question of 
what can be done, given that businesses are profit-seekers, to 
advance social good and curb externalities. 
§I don't believe that thedisclosure route, which seems to have 
become the fallback for some seeking better business behavior, 
will accomplish much, and itmay do more harm than good. 
§Whilelaws and regulationscan provide a partial fix, they are blunt 
instruments, and in a setting where businesses can move easily 
across borders, they may not be effective. 
§Ultimately, we (as consumers and voter) get the businesses we 
deserve, and if after paying lip service to social causes, we buy 
products and vote for governmentshat undercut those causes, no 
acronym or neat-sounding words will repair the breach.
§While high margins are a desirable feature for a 
business,having high margins can make a business 
vulnerable to disruption, and the AI sell off that we have seen 
play out in the last few months in software reflects the 
concerns that investors have of AI putting significant downward 
pressure on software margins. 
§If your pushback is that the drop off in revenues and margins 
has not happened yet, and that it is unfair to software firms 
to mark their market pricing down preemptively, this is exactly 
what markets are supposed to do, and these software 
companies benefited earlier in their lives, when market prices 
were marked up well ahead of the run-up in margins. 
§Yo u  live by the sword (expectations of growth and high 
margins), you die by it (expectations that growth rates will hit 
a cliff and margins will decline)!
§The most cynical explanation is that this increase in margins isall 
sleight-of-hand, where accountants are pushing through changes, 
aided and abetted by accounting rule-writers, to make companies 
look more profitable
§A second explanation is thatthe macroeconomic 
environmentmakes it easier for companies to deliver profits, and 
this explanation had resonance when interest rates were at historic 
lows in the last decade. 
§A third explanation, and this one has been eagerly adopted by 
many on the political left, is that that this reflects theincrease in 
bargaining power for capital, relative especially to labor, implying 
that the increase in profits are coming primarily at the expense of 
worker wages. 
§The fourth, and in my view the most salient rationale for margin 
increases, is that thecomposition of the market has changed, as 
technology companies supplant old-economy companies, 
bringing superior unit economics and economies of scale to play.
§It seems to me that over the last four decades, moats have started 
to crumble, partly as a result of global competition and partly 
because of disruption (which upends businesses, turning good to 
bad), and the business landscape has tilted more decisively to 
larger firms, as more and more businesses become winner-
take-all.
§It is in this context that I take a more jaundiced view of what AI 
will do for company profitability and value. 
§I believe that as a disruptor, it will cause downward pressure on 
margins at most firms and increase the advantages that larger firms 
have in each business. 
§Even if you buy into the AI will increase productivity argument, unless 
the AI tools that you are talking about are exclusive to the companies 
in question, these AI tools will lower costs across the board, and 
competition will then kick in on the pricing front, lowering profitability. 
§I do think that the AI disruption will be more akin to a slow-motion 
car wreck, in terms of its effect of overall profitability, and that the 
margin slippage will be gradual, but over time, damaging.
