Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/RiskCapital2022.pdf

RISK CAPITAL IN 2022: TEMPORARY 
RETREAT OR LONG TERM PULLBACK!
Fear and Greed!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Risk Capital and Markets
¨As inflation has taken center stage, markets have gone into 
retreat around the world. As bond rates rise, stock prices fall, 
and crypto implodes, even true believers are questioning 
what the bottom for markets might be, and when we will get 
there. 
¨While it is easy to call the market movement in 2022 a 
correction and to argue that it is overdue, it is more difficult 
to trace why now, and to establish how much of a correction 
is too much. 
¨In this session, I will argue that almost everything that we are 
seeing across asset classes can be explained by a pull back on 
risk capital, and that the question then is whether this 
pullback has further to go, and how long risk capital will stay 
on the side lines.
Aswath Damodaran
3
Risk Capital: What is it?
Aswath Damodaran
4
Risk Capital: Variations across investors 
and time
Aswath Damodaran
¨ Variation within an investor's portfolio: Many investors, including even the 
most risk averse, will often set aside a portion of their portfolio for riskier 
investments, drawn by the higher expected returns on those investments. 
¤ For some, it will be for the portion that they believe that can lose, without affecting life style 
or future opportunities in any material way. 
¤ For others, it can be the portion with the longest time horizon (pension fund savings or 401Ks), 
¤ The amount that is put into the risk capital portion will vary with investor risk aversion, with 
more risk averse investors putting less or even nothing into the riskiest assets, and less risk 
averse investors putting in more.
¨ Variation across time: The amount that investors are willing to put into risk 
capital, or conversely redirect to safety capital, will change over time, with 
several factors playing a role in determining whether risk capital will be 
plentiful or scarce. 
¤ The first is market momentum, since more money will be put into the riskiest asset classes, 
when markets are rising, because investors who benefit from these rising markets will have 
more capital to risk. 
¤ The second is the the health and stability of the economy, since investors with secure jobs and 
rising paychecks are more willing to take risks.
5
Macro factors?
Aswath Damodaran
¨ The first is thereturn that can be earned on guaranteed investments, 
i.e., treasury bills and bonds, since it is a measure of what someone who 
takes no or very low risk can expect to earn. When treasury rates are low 
or close to zero, refusing to take risk will result in returns that are very low 
or close to zero as well, thus inducing investors to expose themselves to 
more risk than they would have taken in higher interest rate regiments. 
¨The second isinflation, which reduces the nominal return you make on all 
your investments, and the effects of rising inflation on risk capital are 
complex. As expected inflation rises, you are likely to see higher interest 
rates, and as we noted above, that may induce investors to cut back on 
risk taking and focus on earning enough to cover the ravages of inflation. 
As uncertainty about inflation rises, you will see reallocation of investment 
across asset classes, with real assets gaining when unexpected inflation is 
positive (actual inflation is higher than expected), and financial assets 
benefiting when unexpected inflation is negative (actual inflation is less 
than expected).
6
Consequence 1: Risk Premiums
Aswath Damodaran
¨The risk premiums that you observe in every risky asset 
market are a function of how much risk capital there is in 
play, with risk premiums going up when risk capital 
becomes scarce and down, when risk capital is plentiful. 
¨In the bond and loan market, access to risk capital will 
determine default spreads on bonds, with lower rated 
bonds feeling the pain more intensely when risk capital 
is withdrawn or moves to the side lines. Not only will 
default spreads widen more for lower-rated bonds, but 
there will be less bond issuances by riskier companies. 
¨In the equity market, the equity risk premium is the price 
of risk, and its movements will track shifts in risk capital, 
increasing as risk capital becomes scarcer .
7
Consequence 2: Price and Value 
Aswath Damodaran
8
Consequence 3: Corporate Life Cycle
Aswath Damodaran
9
Risk Capital: Historical Perspective
¨How do you track the availability and access to risk capital 
over time? There are three proxies that I will use, and while 
each has its limitations, read together, they can provide a 
fuller measure of the ebbs and flows of risk capital. 
¤The first isfunds investedby venture capitalists, with a breakdown 
further into types, from pre-seed and seed financing to very young 
companies to capital provided to more established businesses, as a 
prelude to exit (acquisition or IPO). 
¤The second is the trend line ininitial public offerings (number and 
value raised), since companies are more likely to go public and be able 
to raise more proceeds when risk capital is plentiful. 
¤The third is bond issuances by the riskiest companies (below 
investment grade and high yield), since these issuances are more likely 
to have a friendly reception when risk capital is easily available than 
when it is not.
Aswath Damodaran
10
1. Venture Capital: History
Aswath Damodaran
11
2. IPOs: History
Aswath Damodaran
12
3. High Yield Bond Issuances: History
Aswath Damodaran
13
The 2022 Update: 
¨The last two and a half years may not represent much 
time on a historical scale, but the period has packed in 
enough surprises to make it feel like a decade already. 
¨We started 2020 with a pandemic that altered our 
personal, work and financial lives, and in 2022, at least in 
North America and Europe, we have seen inflation reach 
levels that we have not seen for decades. 
¨Looking at the 30 months through the lens of risk capital 
can help us understand not only the journey that 
markets have gone through to get where they are today, 
but also perhaps decipher where they may go next.
Aswath Damodaran
14
1. Venture Capital: Recent
AswathDamodaran
15
2. IPOs: Recent
Aswath Damodaran
16
3. High Yield Bond Issuances: Recent
Aswath Damodaran
17
Playing out in equity risk premiums…
Aswath Damodaran
18
And across risk classes in stocks…
Aswath Damodaran
19
Fear factor?
¨Note that high growth, negative earnings companies 
have fared much worse, in general, during the 2022 
downturn, than more mature, money-making 
companies. 
¨The fear factor that is tilting the balance back to safety 
capital from risk capital has also had clear consequences 
in the speculative collectibles space, with cryptos 
bearing the brunt of the punishment. 
¨Finally, there are markdowns coming to private company 
holdings, both in the hands of venture capitalists, and 
public market investors (including mutual funds that 
have been drawn into this space and public companies 
like Softbank).
Aswath Damodaran
20
What next?
¨ The big question that we all face, as we look towards the second half of the year, 
is whether the pullback in risk capital istemporary, as it was in 2020, or whether it 
is more long term, as in 2000 and 2008-09. 
¤ If it is the former, there is hope of not just a recovery, but a strong rebound in risky asset prices
¤ If it is the latter, stocks may stabilize, but the riskiest assets will see depressed prices for much 
longer . 
¨ I don't have a crystal ball or any special macro forecasting ability, but if I had to 
guess, it would be the latter . 
¤ Unlike a virus, where a vaccine may provide at least the semblance of protection (real or 
imagined), inflation, once unleashed, has no quick fix. 
¤ In addition, I also think that a return of fear and a longer term pullback in risk capital is healthy, 
since risk capital providers, spoiled by a decade of more of easy returns, have become lazy and 
sloppy.
¨ If that is a case, it is almost certain that the investment strategies that delivered 
high returns in the last decade will no longer work in this new environment, and 
that old lessons, dismissed as outdated just a few years go, may need to be 
relearned.
Aswath Damodaran
