Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRisk2024.pdf

COUNTRY RISK: THE 2024 
UPDATE!
TheFlipsideofGlobalization!
2
The Lead In…
¨After the 2008 market crisis, I resolved that I would be far less 
casual in my assessments and updating of equity risk premiums, in 
the United States and abroad, more aware of the damage that can 
be inflicted on intrinsic value by significant shifts in risk premiums, 
i.e., my definition of a crisis. 
¤That precipitated my practice of estimating implied equity risk premiums 
for the S&P 500, at the start of every month, and following up of using 
those estimated premiums when valuing companies during that month. 
¤The 2008 crisis also gave rise to two update papers that I do each year: 
nThe first looks at equity risk premiums, what they measure, how they 
vary across time and how best to estimate them, which I last updated in 
March 2024. 
nThe second is focused on country risk and how it varies across 
geographies, with the focus again on determinants, measures and 
estimation, which I update mid-year each year. This post reflects my 
most recent update from July 2024 of country risk.
3
Country Risk: Drivers
¨Attheriskofstatingtheobvious,investingand
operatinginsomecountriesismuchriskierthan
investingandoperatinginothers,withthevariations
onmultipledimensions.
¨Thosevariationsinriskcomefromdifferenceson
fourmajordimensions:
¤Politicalstructure
¤Exposuretowar/violence
¤Extentofcorruption
¤Protectionsforlegalandpropertyrights.
4
1. Political Structure
5
2. Exposure to violence
6
3. Extent of corruption
7
4. Legal and Property rights
8
With nationalization risk an illustrative 
case..
9
Country Risk: External Drivers
¨Lookingatthelastsection,youwouldnotbefaultedfor
believingthatcountryriskexposureisself-determined,
andthatcountriescanbecomelessriskybyworkingon
reducingcorruption,increasingtheirlegalprotections
forpropertyrights,makingthemselvessaferand
workingontheirpoliticalstructures.
¨Thatistrue,buttherearethreefactorsthatarelargely
outoftheircontrolthatcanstilldrivecountryrisk
upwards.
¤Economicover-dependenceonacommodityorcommodities
¤Country’spositioninlifecycle
¤ClimateChange
10
1. Commodity Dependence
11
2. Country Life Cycle
12
3. Climate Change
13
Measuring Country Risk –
1. Default Risk = Sovereign Ratings
14
A Market-based alternative –Sovereign 
CDS spreads
15
2. Country Risk Scores
16
3. Equity Risk Premiums -Approach
17
And results…
18
CountryRiskinBusiness
19
Country risk in valuation
20
Country risk in pricing
21
Whereisthecurrency effect/risk?
¨You may find it odd that I have spent so much of this 
post talking about country risk, without bringing up 
currencies, but that was not an oversight. 
¨It is true that riskier countries often have more 
volatile currencies that depreciate over time, but this 
more a symptom of country risk, than a cause. 
¨As I will argue, the currency choice affects your 
growth, cash flow and discount rate estimates, but 
ultimately should have no effect on intrinsic value.
22
CurrencyConsistency
¨Ifexpected inflation is lower in US dollars than in rupees, the 
cost of capital that you should obtain for a company in US 
dollars will be lower than the cost of capital in rupees, with 
the difference reflecting the expected inflation differential. 
¨However, since your cash flows will also then have to be in US 
dollars, the expected growth that you should use should 
reflect the lower inflation rate in dollars, and if you stay 
consistent in your inflation estimates, the effects should 
cancel out.
23
Riskfree rates and Inflation
¨If my assertion about expected inflation is right, 
variations in riskfree rates can be attributed entirely 
to difference in expected inflation. 
¨At the start of July 2024, for instance, I estimated the 
riskfree rates in every currency, using the US 
treasury bond rate as my dollar riskfree rate, and the 
differential inflation between the currency in 
question and the US dollar:
24
Exchange rates and inflation
¨In the same vein, inflation also enters intoexpected 
exchange rate calculations:
¨Higherinflationcurrencies should see expected currency 
depreciation in future years. It is not the depreciation, 
per se, that is risk, but deviations from that depreciation.
¨This is, of course, the purchasing power parity theorem, 
and while currencies can deviate from this in the short 
term, it remains the best way to ensure that your 
currency views do not hijack your valuation.
