Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/postclass/session2Atest.pdf

Session 2A: Post Class Test 
1. Stock market indices include subsets of stocks listed in the marketplace. Some indices 
equally weight all stocks that are in them, and some use weighting, where some stocks count 
more than others.  
a. If your objective is to develop an index that is representative of what investors in the 
market are earning on stocks, which approach would you use. (If weighted, what 
weights would you use?) 
b. What cautionary notes would you add about your index choice to those who want to 
extrapolate from its returns to the entire market? 
2. The NASDAQ is one of the more heavily followed indices in the US equity markets, but its 
returns may not be representative of what US stocks for which of the following reasons. 
a. There are not enough stocks listed on the NASDAQ 
b. The NASDAQ is only one of many exchanges in the US 
c. The NASDAQ gets a disproportionate share of its value from technology companies 
d. There are other US indices, like the Dow 30 and the S&P 500, that have been around 
for a longer time. 
e. None of the above 
3. You are looking at a research study that claims that larger market cap companies are better 
investments than smaller ones, and backs this up by classifying companies, based upon their 
market capitalization today, and then looking at the returns that they earned over the last 20 
years. (Companies that do not have data for 20 years were removed from the sample). 
a. Explain the statistical reasons why you should be skeptical about its findings. 
b. How would you redo the study to test the hypothesis? 
4. A research study, aimed at examining how stock prices react to CEO changes, looks at 50 
companies where CEOs have changed, focusing in on how the stock prices of these 
companies move in the two days before, the day of and two days after the CEO change 
announcement. The sample was created by looking for news stories about CEO changes in 
the Wall Street Journal between 2018 and 2020.  
a. What are the questions about sampling that you have about this study? 
b. What would you do to follow up on your concerns? 
5. Assume that you have been given annual returns on the S&P 500 for the last 50 years (1971-
2020) and have computed the following: the average annual return was 12.18% and the 
standard deviation in annual returns was 19.49%.  
a. Estimate the expected annual return on the S&P 500, with 95% confidence, based 
upon this sample. 
b. What concern or concerns would you have in making this extrapolation? 
c. What would you do to alleviate or reduce these concerns?
