Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch6.pdf

THE INVESTING 
DECISION ACROSS 
THE LIFE CYCLE 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§The net present value of a project is 
the sum of the present values of the 
expected cash flows on the project, 
over its lifetime, discounted back at the 
hurdle rate, i..e, the cost of equity or 
capital. If the NPV is greater (less) than 
zero, the project is generating a return 
that exceeds (trails) its hurdle rate and 
is a good (bad) project. 
§The internal rate of return is the 
discount rate that makes the 
aggregated present value of all cash 
flows on the project equal to zero. That 
internal rate of return can be compared 
to the hurdle rate for the project, and if 
it exceeds (falls below) the hurdle rate, 
the project is a good project
Aswath Damodaran
§Percent versus Absolute Value: The first difference 
is that the NPV for a project is an absolute value, i.e., 
with expected dollar cash flows, the NPV will be a 
dollar value, biasing it towards investments that 
require more capital. The internal rate of return, as a 
percentage value, is likely to skew towards projects 
that require less capital, yielding rankings that 
diverge from the NPV rule. 
§Unique versus Multiple Values: There can be only 
one net present value for a project, but if a project 
has cash flows that change sign more than once, 
going from negative to positive and then back to 
negative, over time, there can be more than one 
internal rate of return for the project.
§Reinvestment of intermediate cash flows: The NPV 
rule assumes that these intermediate cash flows are 
reinvested at the hurdle rate, a safe assumption if 
these hurdle rates represent what investors can earn 
in the market right now on investments of equivalent 
risk. The IRR rule assumes that intermediate cash 
flows get reinvested at the computed IRR for the 
project, an implicit assumption that the business will 
continue to have new projects very similar in quality 
and returns to the one that is being assessed, in the 
future.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Real options are notoriously difficult to value, 
since the option pricing models thatwe use to 
value listed options do not adapt well to 
valuing project options, where the underlying 
asset is not traded, the options are long term 
and early exercise is more the rule than the 
exception. 
§However, recognizing that there is a real option 
embedded in a project can yield valuable 
insights and alter decision making. Thus, even 
without attaching a value to the option, we 
know that option to expand have the most 
value, when the market you plan to expand into 
is a big one and when you are most uncertain 
about its size, and whether you will be able to 
enter it. 
§While businesses across the life cycle can and 
often do make real options arguments for 
investing in projects that don’t pass financial 
muster (NPV is less than zero or return on 
capital is less than the cost of capital), you can 
see the appeal to young firms, especially those 
entering large markets, since they often face 
the most uncertainty about the future. 
Aswath Damodaran
