Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/PriceofRisk2023.pdf

THEPRICEOFRISK:WITHEQUITY 
RISKPREMIUMS,CAVEATEMPTOR!
Here an ERP , there an ERP….
Aswath Damodaran
2
ERP: An Obsession
¨If you have been reading my posts for a while, you know 
that I have an obsession withequity risk premiums, 
which I believe lie at the center of almost every debate 
in markets and investing. 
¨As part of that obsession, at the start of every month, 
since September 2008, I have estimated an equity risk 
premium for the S&P 500 and not only used that 
premium, when valuing companies during that month, 
but shared my estimate on my webpage and on social 
media. 
¨In my last session, on country risk premiums, I used the 
equity risk premium of 5.00% that I estimated for the US 
at the start of July 2023, for the S&P 500.
3
But confusion abounds…
¨AnarticleinMarketWatchearlierthisyearreferredto
theequityriskpremiumasanesotericconcept,a
phrasingthatsuggestedthatithadlittlerelevancetothe
averageinvestor.
¨Addingtotheconfusionaretheproliferationofvery
differentnumbersthatyoumayhaveseenattachedto
thecurrentequityriskpremium,eachusuallyquotingan
expertinthefield,butprovidinglittlecontext.
¨Justinlastfewweeks,Ihaveseen
¤aWallStreetJournalarticleputtheequityriskpremiumat1.1%
¤aReutersreportputitat2.2%
¤Abearish(andwidelyfollowed)moneymanagerestimate
theequityriskpremiumtobenegative
4
ERP: What is it?
5
ERP: What drives it?
6
ERP: Why should you care?
1. MarketTiming:Anystatementaboutmarketpricingcanberephrasedasastatement
aboutequityriskpremiums;ifyoubelievethattheequityriskpremium,aspricedinby
themarket,hasbecometoolow(relativetowhatyoubelieveisjustified,givenhistory
andfundamentals),youarearguingthatstocksareoverpriced(andduefora
correction).Conversely,ifyoubelievethattheequityriskpremiumhasbecometoo
high,youarecontendingthatstocksarecheap,intheaggregate.
2. StockPicker:Whenyouinvestinanindividualstock,youaredoingsobecauseyou
believethatstockistradingataprice,belowyourestimateofitsvalue.However ,to
makethisjudgment,youhavetoassessvalueinthefirstplace,andwhilewecan
debategrowthpotentialandprofitability,theequityriskpremiumbecomesaninput
intotheprocess,determiningwhatyoushouldearnasanexpectedreturnonastock.
Putsimply,ifyouareusinganequityriskpremiuminyourcompanyvaluationthatis
muchlower(higher)thantheequityriskpremium,pricedinbythemarket,youare
biasingyourselftofindthecompanytobeunder(over)valued.
3. CorporateFinance:Theroleoftheequityriskpremiumindeterminingtheexpected
returnonastockmakesitakeyinputincorporatefinance,aswell,becausethat
expectedreturnbecomesthecompany'scostofequity.Thatcostofequityisthen
embeddedinacostofcapital,andasequityriskpremiumsrise,allcompanieswillsee
theircostsofcapitalrise.
7
ERP: Measurement
¨If the equity risk premium is a market-set number for the price of risk in 
equity markets, how do we go about estimating it? 
¨Unlike the bond market, where interest rates on bonds can be used to 
back out default spreads, equity investors are not explicit about what they 
are demanding as expected returns when they buy stocks. 
¨A range of approaches have been used to estimate the equity risk 
premium:
¤HistoricalRiskPremium: Use the premium that investors in stocks have earned over 
history, relative to risk free investment.
¤Historical Returns based Forecasts: Using just historical returns or historical returns 
combined with a measure of stock cheapness to forecast expected returns on 
stocks.
¤EarningsYield(Earnings to Price Ratio): The earnings yield is often used a ”short 
cut” to estimating the expected return on stocks.
¤Implied ERP: Go the distance with fundamentals and back out an internal rate of 
return on stocks, given pricingandexpectedcashflows.
8
1. Historical ERP
Aswath Damodaran
9
Why it remains the default approach…
¨StabilityandPrecision:Thefactthatyoucancomputeaverages
preciselygetstranslatedintothedelusionthattheseaveragesare
facts,when,infact,theyarenotjustestimatesbutverynoisyones.
Forinstance,evenifyouusetheentire94-yeartimeperiod(from
1928-2022),yourestimatefortheequityriskpremiumisthatit
fallssomewherefrom2.34%-10.94%(Arithmeticaverage
plus/minustwostandarderrors),
¨Bias:Itisalsotruethatthemenuofchoicesthatyouhavefor
historicalequityriskpremiums,fromalowof4.12%toahighof
13.08%,givesanalystsachancetolettheirbiasesplayout.After
all,ifyourjobistocomeupwithalowvalue,allyouhavetodois
latchontoahighnumberinthistable,claimthatitisahistorical
riskpremiumanddeliveronyourpromise.
10
Limits of Historical ERP
¨Mean Reversion: When using historical equity risk premiums, 
you are assuming mean reversion, i.e., that returns revert to 
historic norms over time, though, as you can see, those 
norms can be different, using different time periods. 
¨Structural Stability: You are also assuming that the economic 
and market structure has not changed significantly over the 
estimation period, i.e., that the fundamentals that determine 
the risk premium have remained stable. 
¤For much of the twentieth century, historical equity risk premiums 
worked well as risk premium predictors in the United States, precisely 
because these assumptions held up. 
¤With China's rise, increased globalization and the crisis of 2008 
asprecipitating factors, I would argue that the case for using historical 
risk premiums has become much weaker .
Aswath Damodaran
11
2. Historical Returns-based Forecasts
12
EP plus Stock Returns
13
Using (and misusing) the regression
Aswath Damodaran
¨Youcanusetheregression, in conjunction with the EP 
ratio today (4%), to get predictions:
¤ExpectedReturn=.00254+1.4543(.04)=.0607or6.07%
¤ERP=6.07%-3.97%=2.10%
¨It is worth remembering that the expected return 
predictions come with error, and the more appropriate 
use of this regression is to get a range for the expected 
annual return of 4-8%. 
¨Extending the regression back to 1928 increases the R-
squared and results in regressions that yield predicted 
stock returns that can be lower than the treasury-bond 
rate, i.e., a negative equity risk premium.
14
EP-based Returns: Limits
• Data costs: With the longer time-period predictions, where the predictive power 
is strongest, the same data is counted multiple times in the sameregression. In 
addition, the longer your time horizon, the more data you lose. With a 10-year 
time horizon, for instance, the last year that you can use for predictions is 2012, 
since the EP ratio in that year, will be matched up to the returns from 2013-2022.
• Structural instability: You are assuming that the structural model is stable and 
that there will be mean reversion. In fact, within this time period (1928 -2022), 
the predictive power is far greater from1928 to 1960 than it is from1961 to 2022.
• YoucannottradeR-squared:While these models tout high R-squared, the number 
that matters is the standard error of the predictions; predicting that your annual 
return will be 5% for the next decade with a standard error of 2% yields a range 
that leaves you, as an investor, in suspended animation. Bluntly put, building a 
model that explains past returns well does not equate to being able to make 
money on predictions of returns, and trying to time markets, from this model.
15
The Fed Model: EP and Cost of Equity
¨ Totheextentthatvalueisdrivenbyexpectedfuturecashflows,youcanbackout
anequityriskpremiumfromcurrentstockprices.Inthesimplestversionofthis
model:
¨ Ifyouassumenogrowthandthatallearningsarepaidoutasdividends:
¨ Ifyouassumefirmsmakenoexcessreturns:
16
The EP-based ERP
17
The EP-based ERP: Limits
¨Myproblemwiththeearningsyieldapproachtoestimatingequity
riskpremiumsisthattheassumptionsthatyouneedtomaketo
justifyitsuseareareatwarwiththedata.
¤First,whileearningsgrowthforUSstockshasbeennegativeinsomeyears,
ithasbeenpositiveeverydecadeforthelastcentury,andthereareno
analysts(thatIamawareof)expectingitbezero(innominalterms)inthe
future.
¤Second,assumingthatthereturnonequityisequaltothecostofequity
maybeeasyonpaper,buttheactualreturnonequityforcompaniesinthe
S&P500was19.73%in2022,17.04%overthelastdecadeandhasbeen
higherthanthecostofequityevenintheworstyearinthiscentury(9.35%
in2008).
¨Ifyouallowforgrowthinearningsandexcessreturns,itisclear
thatwhiletheearningsyieldwillyieldtoolowavaluefortheERP ,
becauseoftheseomissions,andwillyieldnegativevaluesinmany
periods,makingituselessasanERPestimatorforvaluation.
18
4. Implied ERP
19
On August 1, 2023
Aswath Damodaran
20
Implied ERP versus EP-based ERP
¨To reconcile my estimate of the equity risk premium with the 
earnings yield approach, set the earnings growth rate to zero 
and the cash payout to 100%, and you will find that the 
equity risk premium you get converges on the 0.41% that you 
get with the earnings yield approach. 
¨Adding growth and excess returns to the equation is what 
brings it up to 4.44%, and I believe that the data is on my 
side, in this argument. 
¨To the critique that my approach requires estimates of 
earnings growth and excess returns that may be wrong, I am 
willing to wager that whatever mistakes I make on either 
input will be smaller than the input mistakes made by 
assuming no growth and no excess returns, as is the case with 
the earnings yield approach.
Aswath Damodaran
21
Picking an Approach for estimating ERP
Aswath Damodaran
22
The Ultimate Test
Aswath Damodaran
23
With a caveat..
Aswath Damodaran
24
ERP: Concluding Thoughts..
1. ThereisatrueERP:Thefactthatthethetrueequityriskpremiumisunobservabledoesnot
meanthatitdoesnotexist.Inotherwords,thenotionthatyoucangetawayusinganequity
riskpremiumyouwant,aslongasyouhaveajustificationandareconsistent,isabsurd.
2. Notallestimationapproachesarecreatedequal:Whiletherearemanyapproachesto
estimatingtheequityriskpremium,andtheyyieldverydifferentnumbers,someofthese
approacheshavemoreheft,becausetheyofferbetterpredictivepower.
3. Yourendgamematters:Iamnotamarkettimerandestimateanequityriskpremium
primarilybecauseIneeditasaninputinvaluationandcorporatefinance.Thatrequiresan
approachthatyieldspositivevalues(rulingouttheEP-basedERP)andmoveswithwithstock
returnsinsubsequentperiods(eliminatinghistoricalERP).
4. Markettimers,beware:Ifyouareusingequityriskpremiumsorevenearningsyieldfor
markettiming,recognizethathavingahighR-squaredorcorrelationinpastreturnswillnot
oftentranslateintomarket-timingprofits,fortworeasons.
1. First,thepastisnotalwaysprologue,andmarketandeconomicstructureshaveshifted,undercutting
akeybasisforusinghistoricaldata.
2. Second,evenifthecorrelationsandregressionshold,youmaystillfindithardtoprofitfromthem,
sinceyou(andyourclients,ifyouareaportfoliomanager)maybebankrupt,beforeyourpredictions
playout.
