Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2020.pdf

DATAUPDATE 5: A HURDLE RATE 
WRAP UP
When markets drop…
2
From the Macro to the Micro..
¨ In my last four posts, I focused on the macro variables that we 
use, in both corporate finance and valuation, to estimate 
required returns or hurdle rates. 
¨ To get from the macro risk measures to company-level hurdle 
rates, you need to make judgments on relative risk. If you buy 
into the proposition, like I do, that some investments are 
riskier than others, you need a measure of relative risk that 
captures this variation. 
¨ It is in this context that I think of betas, a loaded concept that 
carries with it the baggage of modern portfolio theory and 
efficient markets. If you add to this the standard approach to 
estimating betas, built on looking at past prices and running 
regressions against market indices, you have the makings of a 
perfect storm, designed to drive value investors to apoplexy.
3
Relative Risk Proposition 1: Beta and Discounted 
Cash Flow Valuation
¨ Relative Risk Proposition 1: You do not need to 
believe in betas to do financial analysis and 
valuation.
¨ While there are many who tie discounted cash flow 
valuations to the use of beta or betas, there is 
nothing inherently in a DCF that requires that you 
make this leap:
4
Relative Risk Proposition 2: If you don’t like 
betas, there are alternatives
5
Relative Risk Proposition 3: The Margin of 
Safety is not a risk measure
¨ When value investors talk about protecting 
themselves from risk by using a margin of safety, 
they are talking about building a buffer between 
value and price, but to use the margin of safety,you 
need to value a stock first. 
¨ To get that value, you need a risk measure, and that 
brings us back full circle to how you adjust for risk, 
when valuing companies.
¨ Having one margin of safety that applies for all firms
does not make sense, and setting it so high that you 
end up not investing is even worse.
6
Relative Risk in 2020: Betas
7
Relative Risk in 2020: Standard Deviation in 
Stock Prices
8
Relative Risk in 2020: HiLo Risk Measure
Hi Lo Risk = (High Price – Low Price)/(High Price + Low Price)
9
Relative Risk in 2020: Earnings Variability
CV in Earnings = Std Dev in Earnings over last 10 years/ 
Average Earnings in last 10 years
10
Cost of Equity
11
Cost of Equity in 2020
12
Cost of Debt
13
Cost of Debt in 2020
14
The Tax Effect
¨ It is worth noting that the tax law tilt towards debt, 
represented in the fact that interest expenses are tax 
deductible and cash flows to equity (dividends and buybacks) 
have to come from after-tax cash flows, is not just a 
phenomenon for the US, but true over much of the world, 
with the Middle East representing the holdout. 
¨ This tax benefit shows up in the cost of capital, through the 
conversion of the pre-tax cost of debt into an after-tax cost, 
using the marginal tax rate to make the adjustment:
¤ After-tax cost of debt = Pre-tax cost of debt (1 - Marginal Tax Rate)
¤ In my sample, I use the marginal tax rate of the country in which a 
company is incorporated
15
The Final Puzzle Piece: Debt Mix in 2020
16
Cost of Capital in 2020: A Picture
17
And a table..
