Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRisk2018.pdf

COUNTRY RISK 2018: A MID-YEAR 
UPDATE
Aswath Damodaran
2
Setting up country risk
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
¨ Investors are more global: Encouraged to spread their bets 
around the world, investors have shed some of the home bias 
in their portfolios and added foreign equities to their 
portfolios. 
¨ As are companies: Even those that have stayed invested with 
companies in their own markets are finding that those 
companies derive large chunks of their revenues from foreign 
markets. 
¨ No place to hide: There is no place to hide from assessing 
global risk and analysts who bury their head in the sand will 
miss large parts of the big picture.
¨ My twice-annual updates: I update my country risk 
premiums, twice every year, just as I have for the last 25 
years.
3
The Fundamentals of Country Risk
Aswath 
Damodaran
3
¨ The prevalence of corruption in a country, with the 
corrosive influences it has on business practices and 
financial reports. 
¨ Increased exposure to violence from war or terrorism in 
some countries, creating not just additional operating 
costs (for insurance and protection) but also the real 
possibility of a complete loss of the business. 
¨ The legal system for enforcing property rights, since a 
share in even the most valuable business in the world is 
worth little or nothing, if property rights are ignored or 
violated on a whim. In this section, we will look at the 
state of the world on these three dimensions.
4
1. Corruption: Why we care..
Aswath Damodaran
4
1. It is a hidden tax: The effective tax rate that a company 
pays in a corrupt economy will be much higher than 
the statutory tax rate. Since it is not legal for companies 
to pay bribes in much of the developed world, it is not 
explicitly reported as such in the financial statements 
but it is a drain on income, nevertheless.
2. It can be a competitive advantage or disadvantage: In 
many corrupt economies, there are companies that are 
not only more willing but also more efficient at playing 
the corruption game, giving them a leg up on 
businesses that face moral or legal restrictions on 
playing the game.
5
Global Corruption: A Picture
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
II. Violence: Why we care..
¨ Protecting the business and its employees against 
the violence is expensive, with more security built 
into even the most common place practices. To the 
extent that this protection is not complete, there is 
the added cost of the destruction wrought by 
violence. 
¨ In extreme cases, the violence can cause a business 
to fail. It is true that you can insure against some of 
these events, but that insurance cost will be high 
and reduce profit margins.
7
Violence: Global Picture
8
III. Legal Protection: Why we care..
¨ In valuation, we value a business or a share in it, on 
the assumption that that you are entitled, as the 
owner, to a share of its assets and cash flows. That is 
true, though, only if private property rights are 
respected and are backed up a legal system in a 
timely fashion. 
¨ As property rights weaken, the claim on the cash 
flows and assets also weakens, reducing the 
assessed value, and in extreme circumstances, such 
as nationalization with no compensation, the value 
can converge on zero.
9
Legal Protection: Global Picture
10
Composite Risk Measures
11
Default Risk
¨ Sovereign Ratings: Ratings agencies have rated corporate 
bonds for default risk, using a letter grade system that goes 
back almost a century. In the last three decades these 
agencies have turned their attention to sovereign debt, using 
the same rating system. 
¨ Sovereign CDS Spreads: Look at what investors are 
demanding as a spread for buying bonds issued by a risky 
sovereign. Since there only a few countries where this is the 
case, it is provident that the sovereign CDS market has 
expanded over the last decade. This market, where you can 
buy insurance, on an annual basis, against default risk, has 
expanded over the last few years and there are now about 80 
countries where you can observe the traded spreads.
12
Sovereign Ratings: Global Picture
13
Sovereign CDS Spreads: Global Picture
14
From Default to Equity Risk
¨ If you are lending money to a business, or buying 
bonds, it is default risk that you are focused on, but 
if you own a business, your exposure to risk is far 
broader, since your claims are residual. This is equity 
risk.
¨ If there are variations in default risk across 
countries, it stands to reason that equity risk should 
also vary across countries, leading investors and 
business owners to demand different equity risk 
premiums in different parts of the world.
15
Two Propositions on Country Risk
¨ Proposition 1: If country risk is diversifiable and investors 
are globally diversified, the equity risk premium should 
be the same across countries. If country risk is not fully 
diversifiable, either because the correlation 
across markets is high or investors are not global, the 
equity risk premium should vary across markets.
¨ Proposition 2: If there are variations in equity risk 
premiums across countries, the exposure of a business 
to that risk should be determined by where the business 
operates (in terms of producing and selling its goods and 
services), not where it is incorporated.
16
Estimating Equity Risk Premium for a 
Country
17
ERP: A Global Picture
18
Incorporating Country Risk into Valuation:
Coca Cola, with Revenues
19
Incorporating Country Risk into Valuation: 
Royal Dutch, with Production
20
Incorporating Country Risk Into Investment 
Analysis
¨ Assume that Coca Cola is considering making investments in Nigeria, 
Chile and US and is trying to estimate the "right" cost of equity to use in 
its assessment. Even if all of the investments are in identical businesses 
(soft drinks) and are in the same currency (US dollars), the costs of equity 
will vary across them (the beta for Coca Cola is 0.80 and the risk free rate 
is 3%):
¤ Nigeria project: Risk Free Rate +Beta* (Nigeria ERP) = 3% + 0.80 (13.15%) = 13.52%
¤ Chile project: Risk Free Rate +Beta* (Chile ERP) = 3% + 0.80 (6.22%) = 7.98%
¤ US project: Risk Free Rate +Beta* (USA ERP) = 3% + 0.80 (5.37%) = 7.30%
¨ It is worth noting that many companies still adopt the practice of using 
the same hurdle rate for investments in different markets and if Coca Cola 
adopted this practice, it  will reduce the cost of equity for the Nigerian 
investment and raise it for the Chilean and Canadian investments, and 
over time, it will lead Coca Cola to over invest and over expand in the 
riskiest markets.
21
Incorporating Country Risk into Pricing
¨ If equity risk varies across countries, you should also expect to see 
it show up in PE ratios or EV/EBITDA multiples, with companies in 
riskier markets trading at lower values. 
¨ This can be viewed as an argument for finding comparable firms in 
markets of equivalent risk, but as we saw with Coca Cola and Royal 
Dutch, that can be difficult to do. 
¨ Since there are often far fewer companies listed in many emerging 
markets, you have no choice but to look outside your market for 
comparable firms, and when you do so, you have to at least 
consider differences in country risk, when making your judgments. 
¨ If you do not, and you are comparing publicly traded retailers 
across Latin America, companies in riskier markets (like Venezuela, 
Argentina and Ecuador) will look cheap relative to companies in 
safer markets (like Chile and Colombia).
