Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate8for2026.pdf

Cash returns as investment harvest!
2
§In the data update sessions this year, I have wended my way from 
the macro (equities collectives, the bond market and other asset 
classes) to the micro, starting with hurdle rates and returns in posts 
five and six and the debt/equity choice in my seventh post. 
§In this session, I will look at the decision by businesses on how 
much cash to return to their owners, and in what form 
(dividends or buybacks), and how that decision played out 
globally in 2025. 
§I will argue that dividend policy , more than any other aspect of 
corporate finance, is dysfunctional both on the sides of the firms 
that choose to return the cash and the investors who receive that 
cash. 
§It is also telling that there are many who seem to view the very act 
of returning cash as a sign of failure on the part of firms that do 
so, even though it is the end game for every successful business.
3
4
§Inertia: In many companies, dividend policy is set on auto pilot, 
with dividends this year set equal to dividends in the last year. 
It is for that reason that the word I would use to describe 
dividend policy , at least when it comes to conventional 
dividends, is 'sticky’.
§Me-tooism: In most companies, managers look to peer group 
dividend policyfor guidance on how much, if any , to pay in 
dividends. Thus, if you are a bank or a utility, it is likely that you 
will pay high dividends, because everyone else in the sector 
does so a well, whereas technology companies will pay no or 
low dividends, because that is industry practice.
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
§As buybacks have soared in the United States, misconceptions 
and myths about buybacks have also surged.
§Somehave used to back up the argument that buybacks are at 
the heart of every business problem in the US and should 
therefore be banned. Theytakeissueswith buybacksas:
§They are a primarily a US phenomenon
§Buybacksarewastefuland reduce corporate investment
§Buybacks are debt-funded and are increasing distress risk
§Buybacks are value-destroying, because companies buy back 
shares at prices that are too high.
§Others present it as the basis for a cannot-lose strategy to 
beatthe market, because
§Buybackscanbevaluecreating, if they are the right price
§Buybacks increase share prices, because they reduce share count
17
18
19
20
§Warren Buffett was late to the buyback party, but when he 
initiated buybacks at Berkshire Hathaway, he introduced a 
constraint, which is that he would do buybacks only if he 
believed that the company's stock price was less than 
intrinsic value. 
§That does seem like value destruction, but a cash return can 
neither add nor destroy value, but it can transfer wealth. In 
the case of stock buybacks at too high a price, wealth is 
transferred from those who remain loyal shareholders in 
the firm to those who sell their shares. 
§While there is hand wringing about this, I have little sympathy 
for complaining shareholders, since they had a choice, in a 
buyback, to sell or hold on, and made the wrong choice.
21
§This is the inverse of the argument that buybacks are value 
destroying, and they are both grounded in a misclassification 
of buybacks as projects, rather than cash return, competing 
with investment projects for the company's dollars. 
§The truth again is that a stock that buys back stock at lower than 
fair value is transferring wealth from those who sell back to 
those who remain, and here again, if you are on the wrong 
side of wealth transfer, it was your choice to sell back that made 
you the loser.
22
23
24
§There are a whole host of misalignments between what 
companies return to their shareholders, either as 
dividends or in buybacks, and what they can, as potential 
dividends. 
§That suggests to me, and perhaps I am wrong, that investment 
strategies that are built around cash return, whether they be 
dividends or buybacks, are likely to go off the tracks. 
§Furthermore, any strategy that is built entirely around 
dividends, as is the case with strategies where you load up on high 
dividend yield stocks or buy a handful of heavy dividend payers, 
such as the Dow Dogs, misses the essence of equity investing. 
§A stock is not a bond, where dividends replace coupons, and you 
get some price appreciation on top, and treating it as such will only 
create disappointment.
