Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/FreeCF.pdf

EARNINGS AND CASH FLOWS: A 
PRIMER ON FREE CASH FLOWS
Who put the free in free cash flow?
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
The Cleansing Effects of a Market 
Correction
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨It is never pleasant to be in the midst ofa market 
correction, but a market correction does operate as a 
cleanser for excesses that enter intoeven the most 
disciplined investors' playbooks in the good times. 
¨This correction has been no exception, as the threat of 
losing investment capital has focused the minds of 
investors, andled many to reexamine practices adopted 
during the last decade. 
¤There has been more talk of earnings than of revenue or user 
growth this year, and the notion of cashflows driving value 
seems to be back in vogue. 
¤I find that development welcome, but I find myself doing double 
takes I see concoctions of free cash flow that violate first 
financial principles.
3
Free Cash Flow: The Most Dangerous Term 
in Finance
Aswath Damodaran
3
¨Free cash flow is one of the most dangerous terms in finance, 
and I am astonished by how it can be bent to mean whatever 
investors or managers want it to, andused to advance their 
sales pitches. 
¨I have seen analysts and managers argue that adding back 
depreciation to earnings gives you free cash flow, an 
intermediate stop, at best, if you truly are intent on 
computing free cash flow. 
¨In the last two decades, I have seen free cash flow measures 
stretched to cover adjusted EBITDA, where stock-based 
compensation is added back to EBITDA, and with WeWork, to 
community-adjusted EBITDA, where almost all expenses get 
added back to get to the adjusted value.
4
Free Cash Flows to whom?
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
Free Cash Flows to Equity
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
Free Cash Flow to Firm
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
FCFE and FCFF: Microsoft
Aswath Damodaran
8
Another way to present free cash flow
9
Using Free Cash Flows
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨there are facile reasons that you can give for computing free cash 
flows, including the usual “we don’t trust accounting earnings” 
and “cash is king”, but there are three places free cash flows can 
be used
¤The first is that is that computing free cash flows for a past period helps in 
explaining what happened at a business during that period, in operating, 
investing and financing terms. 
¤The second is that it is that the free cash flows that you compute for a past 
period can be used as the basis for forecasting expected free cash flows in 
the future, a key ingredient if you are doing intrinsic valuation. 
¤The third is to compute the free cash flow as a base to be used to compare 
pricing across companies, where the market price is scaled to free cash 
flow, rather than to earnings. 
¨Since each of these missions has a different end game, there can 
be consequences for how we estimate free cash flows in each one.
10
1. Explain the past
Aswath Damodaran
10
11
FCFE and Cash Balances
AswathDamodaran
11
12
Reading FCFF
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
2. Intrinsic Valuation
14
Free Cash Flow in Valuation: Base Year
Aswath Damodaran
14
1. UnusualorExtraordinaryitems:Ifyouarecomputingcashflowsasabaseforforecastingthefuture,youshouldeliminateanyitems
thatyoudon’texpecttorecurinthefuture.
2. NormalizedvsActualnumbers:Foritemsthatarerecurring,butvolatile,thereisagoodcasetobemadethatwhileyouwillusethe
actualvalues,ifcomputingfreecashflowsforthemostrecentyear,youshouldbenormalizingthem,thoughthemethodsyouusefor
normalizationcanvaryacrossitems.Withthechangeinnon-cashworkingcapital,anotoriouslyvolatileitemonayear-to-yearbasis,
-ChangeinworkingcapitalreplacedbyworkingcapitalcomputedusingWCas%ofrevenues
-Actualacquisitionwithaverageovertime.
3. Stock-basedCompensationandAcquisitions:Stock-basedcompensationismoreofanin-kindexpense,whereyougiveawaysharesof
equityinthecompanyinsteadofpayingcash.Ifyouareestimatefreecashflows(tothefirmortoequity),withtheintentofvaluing
thatfirm,addingbackstock-basedcompensationisequivalenttoarguingthatyoucaneitherstoppayingemployeesinthefuture(and
stillholdontothem)orthatyoucankeepgivingawayequitystakesinyourcompanywithnoconsequencesforvaluepershare.Using
thelogicthatpayingforsomethingwithshares,insteadofcash,stillhasaneffectonfreecashflows,wewouldarguethatacompany
thatplanstogrowthroughacquisitions,usingitsownstockascurrency,isreinvesting,andthatthisreinvestmentshouldreduce
expectedfreecashflowstoequity,toexistingshareholders.
4. Taxes:Whenyourobjectiveistoforecastfuturefreecashflows.Iwouldsuggestlookingatanaverageeffectivetaxrateoveralonger
period,incomputingthebaseyearfreecashflow,andthenalsotargetingthemarginaltaxrate,asyouforecasttaxesforthefuture.In
theMicrosoftFCFFcalculation,thiswouldimplyreplacingtheeffectivetaxrateof13.83%withanaverageeffectivetaxrateof22%,
usingthe2017-2021timeperiod,whichwouldlowerfreecashflowstothefirm.
5. AccountingInconsistencies:WhileR&Dremainsacashoutflow,whetheryoutreatitasanoperatingoracapitalexpenditure,movingit
fromoperatingtocapitalexpenditurescanalteryourperceptionofacompany'soperations.InthecaseofMicrosoft,forinstance,
capitalizingthe$20,716millionthatthecompanyspentonR&Din2021,willincreasethenetincomeforthecompany,whilealso
raisingthereinvestmentbyanequivalentamount.
15
Microsoft: FCFE for the past versus FCFE as 
a basis for the future
Aswath Damodaran
15
16
3. Pricing
¨Thequestionofwhichvariants(FCFEorFCFF)canbeuseddependson
whetheryouareusinganequitypricingmultiple(wherethemarketcap
orsharepriceisinthenumerator)oranenterprisevaluemultiple(where
itisthemarketvalueofoperatingassetsinthenumerator):
• Withequitymultiples,youcanscalethemarketvalueofequity(ormarket
capitalization)ofacompanytoitsfreecashflowtoequity,toestimateaPriceto
FCFEmultiple,andofferitasanalternativetothemuchmorewidelyusedPEratio,
wheremarketcapitalizationisscaledtonetincome.
• With enterprise value multiples, you can scale enterprise value to FCFF , instead of 
using EBITDA or revenues as your scalar . Again, you could argue for the benefits of a 
more complete measure of cash flow, but as with FCFE, FCFF will be more volatile 
than revenues or EBITDA, making it difficult to pass pricing judgment.
¨The logic that analysts use for the use of free cash flows is simple and 
seems compelling. If the value of a business is the present value of its 
expected cash flows, as we argue in intrinsic valuation, it seems 
reasonable to also argue that the free cash flow that a business generates 
is a better measure of its value than the accounting earnings.
Aswath Damodaran
16
17
A Life Cycle Perspective on Free Cash 
Flows
Aswath Damodaran
17
18
And how it played out at Tesla…
Aswath Damodaran
18
19
And across companies…
Aswath Damodaran
19
20
Playing out in dividends & buybacks
Aswath Damodaran
20
21
Pricing: Cash Flows versus Earnings
¨While there are some cash flow purists who prefer cash 
flow multiples toearnings multiples, they will never be 
widely used for two reasons. 
¤No frame of reference: The reason that investors like to price 
companies, using multiples, is because they have frames of 
reference on these multiples, i.e., a sense of what a typical 
number should like like in a sector . With PE ratios, their long 
history of usage has left investors with frames of reference that 
they can use, rightfully or wrongfully, in pricing stocks, but with 
Price to FCFE ratios, there is no such reference frame. 
¤Noise in estimates: As you can see from how FCFE is computed, 
with the netting out of reinvestment and incorporating debt 
cash flows, it will always be a more volatile number than 
earnings, with much of the additional volatility telling you little 
about current earnings power .
Aswath Damodaran
21
22
Perspective on Equity Pricing 
Aswath Damodaran
22
23
Perspective on EV pricing
Aswath Damodaran
23
24
A Bottom Line on Pricing
¨As a cash flow advocate, it pains me to say this, but if your 
game is pricing stocks, I see little benefit from replacing 
traditional multiples (like PE and EV to EBITDA) with free cash 
flow scaled pricing measures. 
¨That is because a single year’s free cash flow (to equity or the 
firm) has more noise in it, and is less informative about a 
company’s operating health, than a single year’s earnings (net 
income or EBITDA).
¨However, you can augment your PE or EV to EBITDA pricing 
by bringing in insights that you get from computing and 
calculating free cash flows including:
¤How much a company pays in taxes
¤How much it reinvests to deliver its growth
¤How much it is adding to or reducing debt
Aswath Damodaran
24
