Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate1for2014.pdf

DATA UPDATE 1 FOR 2024: THE 
DATA SPEAKS, BUT WHAT IS IT 
SAYING?
Respect data, but don’t revere it!
2
MyDataHistory
¨ In January 1993, I was valuing a retail company, and I found myself wondering 
what a reasonable margin was for a firm operating in the retail business. 
¤ In pursuit of an answer to that question, I used company-specific data from Value Line, one of 
the earliest entrants into the investment data business, to compute an industry average. 
¤ The numbers that I computed opened my eyes to how much perspective on the high, low, and 
typical values, i.e., the distribution of margins, helped in valuing the company, and how little 
information there was available, at least at that time, on this dimension. 
¨ That year, I computed these industry-level statistics for five variables that I found 
myself using repeatedly in my valuations, and once I had them, I could not think of 
a good reason to keep them secret. 
¨ After all, I had no plans on becoming a data service, and making them available to 
others cost me absolutely nothing. In fact, that year, my sharing was limited to the 
students in my classes, but in the years following, as the internet became an 
integral part of our lives, I extended that sharing to anyone who happened to 
stumble upon my website.
3
AnAnnualDataRitual
¨ That process has become a start-of-the-year ritual, and as data has become more 
accessible and my data analysis tools more powerful, those five variables have 
expanded out to more than two hundred variables, and my reach has extended 
from the US stocks that Value Line followed to all publicly traded companies 
across the globe on much more wide-reaching databases. 
¨ Along the way, more people than I ever imagined have found my data of use, and 
while I still have no desire to be a data service, I have an obligation to be 
transparent about my data analysis processes. 
¨ I have also developed a practice in the last decade of spending much of January 
exploring what the data tells us, and does not tell us, about the investing, 
financing and dividend choices that companies made during the most recent year . 
¨ In this, the first of the data posts for this year, I will describe my data, in terms of 
geographic spread and industrial breakdown, the variables that I estimate and 
report on, the choices I make when I analyze data, as well as caveats on best uses 
and biggest misuses of the data.
4
The Sample
¨While there are numerous services, including many free ones, that 
report data statistics, broken down by geography and industry, 
many look at only subsamples (companies in the most widely used 
indices, large market cap companies, only liquid markets), often 
with sensible rationale –that these companies carry the largest 
weight in markets or have the most reliable information on them. 
¨Early in my estimation life, I decided that while this rationale made 
sense, the sampling, no matter how well intentioned, created 
sampling bias. 
¨Thus, looking at only the companies in the S&P 500 may give you 
more reliable data, with fewer missing observations, but your 
results will reflect what large market cap companies in any sector 
or industry do, rather than what is typical for that industry.
5
Inclusion Criteria
¨Since I am lucky enough to have access to databases that 
carry data on all publicly traded stocks, I choose all publicly 
traded companies, with a market price that exceeds zero, as 
my universe, for computing all statistics. In January 2024, that 
universe had 47,698 companies.
¨Geographically, these companies are incorporated in 134 
countries, and while you can download the number of 
companies listed, by country, in a dataset at the end of this 
post, I break the companies down by region into six broad 
groupings –United States, Europe (including both EU and 
non-EU countries, but with a few East European countries 
excluded), Asia excluding Japan, Japan, Australia & Canada (as 
a combined group) and Emerging Markets (which include all 
countries not in the other groupings)/
6
The Data Universe-By Sector
7
The Data Universe-By Region
8
Caveats on Grouping
¨I am sure that there are countries or at least one country 
(your own) that I have miscategorized, I have three points to 
make, representing a combination of meaculpas and 
explanations. 
¤First, these categorizations were created close to twenty years ago, 
when I first started looking a global data, and many countries that 
were emerging markets then have developed into more mature 
markets now. 
¤Second, I use these groupings to compute industry averages, by 
grouping, as well as global averages, and nothing stops you from using 
the average of a different grouping in your valuation. 
¤Third, the emerging market grouping is now a large and unwieldy one, 
including most of Asia (other than Japan), Africa, the Middle East, 
portions of Eastern Europe and Russia and Latin America. 
Consequently, I do report industry averages for the two fastest growing 
emerging markets in India and China.
9
The Variables
¨This entire exercise of collecting and analyzing data is a 
selfish one, insofar as I compute the data variables that I 
find useful when doing corporate financial analysis, 
valuation, or investment analysis. 
¨I also have quirks in how I compute widely used statistics 
like accounting returns on capital or debt ratios, and I 
will stay with those quirks, no matter what the 
accounting rule writers say. 
¨Thus, I have treated leases as debt in computing debt 
ratios all through the decades that I have been 
computing this statistic, even though accounting rules 
did not do so until 2019, and capitalized R&D, even 
though accounting has not made that judgment yet.
10
Corporate Finance -Variables
11
Valuation -Variables
12
Macro Data?
¨My data is primarily micro-focused, since there are other 
services that are much better positioned to provide macro 
data (on inflation, interest rates, exchange rates etc.). 
¤My favorite remains the Federal Reserve data site in St. Louis (know as 
FRED, and one of the great free data resources in the world), but there 
are a few macro data items that I estimate, primarily because they are 
not as easily available, or if available, are exposed to estimation 
choices. 
¤I report annual historical returns on asset classes (stocks, bonds, real 
estate, gold) going back to 1928, mostly because data services seem to 
focus on individual asset classes and partly because I want to make 
sure that returns are computed the way I want them to be. 
¤I also have implied equity risk premiums (forward-looking and dynamic 
estimate of what investors are pricing stocks to earn in the future) for 
the S&P 500 going back annually to 1960 and monthly to 2008, and 
equity risk premiums for countries.
13
Industry Groupings
14
Data Timing
¨In computing the statistics for each of the variables, I have one overriding 
objective, which is to make sure that they reflect the most updated data 
that I have at the time that I compute them, which is usually the first 
week of January. 
¨That does lead to what some of you may view as timing contradictions, 
since any statistic based upon market data (costs of equity and capital, 
equity risk premiums, risk free rates) is updated to the date that I do the 
analysis (usually the values at the close of the last trading day of the prior 
year –Dec 31, 2023, for 2024 numbers), but any statistic that uses 
accounting numbers (revenues, earnings etc.) will reflect the most recent 
quarterly accounting filing. 
¨Thus, when computing my accounting return on equity in January 2024, I 
will be dividing the earnings from the four quarters ending in September 
2023 (trailing twelve month) by the book value of equity at the end of 
September 2022. Since this is reflecting of what investors in the market 
have access to at the start of 2024, it fulfils my objective of being the 
most updated data, notwithstanding the timing mismatch.
15
Currency and Accounting Issues?
¨There are two perils with computing statistics across 
companies in different markets. 
¤The first is differences in accounting standards, and there is little 
that I can do about that other than point out that these 
differences have narrowed over time.
¤The other is the presence of multiple currencies, with 
companies in different countries reporting their financials in 
different currencies. 
¨The global database that I use for my raw data, S&P 
Capital IQ, gives me the option of getting all ofthe data 
in US dollars, and that allows for aggregation across 
global companies. In addition, most of the statistics I 
report are ratios rather than absolute values, andare 
thus amenable to averaging across multiple countries.
16
Statistical Choices
¨ MissingData:therearedataitemswherethereportingstandardseitherdon’t
requiredisclosureinsomepartsoftheworld(stock-basedcompensation)or
disclosureisvoluntary(employeenumbers).Whenconfrontedwithmissingdata,I
donotthrowtheentirecompanyoutofmysample,butIreportthestatisticsonly
acrosscompaniesthatreportthatdata.
¨ Averages,MediansandAggregates:Thesimpleaverage,whichistheworkhorse
statisticthatmostservicesreportforvariables,isoftenapoormeasureofwhatis
typicalinanindustry,eitherbecausethevariablecannotbecomputedformany
ofthecompaniesintheindustry,orbecause,evenwhencomputed,itcantakeon
outliervalues.Havingtoyedwithalternativeapproaches,theonethatIfindoffers
thebestbalanceistheaggregatedratio.Theresultingvalueusesallofthe
companiesinthesample,reducingsamplingbias,andisclosertoaweighted
average,alleviatingtheoutliereffect.Forafewvariables,Idoreportthe
conventionalaverageandmedian,justforcomparison.
17
Using the Data
¨ AsInotedearlier,thedatasetsthatIreportaredesignedformyuse,incorporatefinancialanalysisand
valuationthatIdoinrealtime.Thus,Iplantousethe2024datathatyousee,whenIvaluecompaniesor
docorporatefinancialanalysisduringtheyear,andifyouareapractitionerdoingsomethingsimilar,it
shouldworkforyou.Youcanfindthiscurrentdataatthislink,organizedtoreflectthecategories.
¨ Thatsaid,therearesomeofyouwhoarenotdoingyouranalysisinrealtime,eitherbecauseyouarein
theappraisalbusinessandmustvalueyourcompanyasofthestartof2020or2021,oraresearcher
lookingatchangesovertime.Idomaintainthearchivedversionsofmydatasetsforprioryearsonmy
webpage,andifyouclickontherelevantdata,youcangetthethrowbackdatafromprioryears.
¨ Therearetwousesthatmydataisputtowhereyouareonyourown.
¤ Thefirstisinlegaldisputes,whereoneorbothsidesofthedisputeseemtolatchontodataonmy
sitetomaketheir(opposing)cases.WhileIclearlycannotstopthatfromhappening,pleasekeepme
outofthosefights,sincethereisareasonIdon’tdoexpertwitnessoflegalappraisalwork;courtsare
thegraveyardsforgoodsenseinvaluation.
¤ Theotherisinadvocacywork,wheredatafrommysiteisoftenselectivelyusedtoadvancea
politicalorbusinessargument.Mydatasetonwhatcompaniespayastaxratesseemstobeafavored
destination,andIhaveseenstatisticsfromitusedtoadvanceargumentsthatUScompaniespaytoo
muchortoolittleintaxes.
¨ Mydatasetsdonotcarrycompany-specificdata,sincemyrawdataproviders(fairly)constrainmefrom
sharingthatdata.Thus,ifyouwanttofindthecostofcapitalforUnileverorareturnoncapitalforApple,
youwillnotfinditonmysite,butthatdataisavailableonlinealready,orcanbecomputedfromthe
financialreleasesfromthesecompanies.
18
A Sharing Request
¨Ifyoudousethedata,youdon’thavetothankme,
orevenacknowledgemycontribution.
¨Useitsensibly,takeownershipofyouranalysis
(don’tblamemydataforyourvaluebeingtoohigh
orlow)andpassonknowledge.Itisoneofthefew
thingsthatyoucansharefreelyandbecomericher
asyousharemore.
¨Also,aswithanylargedataexercise,Iamsurethat
therearemistakesthathavefoundtheirwayinto
thedata,andifyoufindthem,letmeknow,andI
willfixthemasquicklyasIcan!
