Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Cannabis.pdf

HIGH AND HIGHER: MAKING 
MONEY ON MARIJUANA!
TheCannabisBoom!
2
The times, they are a changing..
¨In 1992, when Bill Clinton was running for president of the 
United States, and was asked whether he had ever smoked 
marijuana, he responded that he had, but that he did not 
inhale. 
¨Today, smoking marijuana recreationally is legal in nine states 
and medical marijuana in twenty nine states, in the United 
States. On October 17, 2018, Canada will become the second 
country (after Uruguay) in the world to legalize the 
recreational use of the product. 
¨In conjunction with this development, new companies are 
entering the market, hoping to take advantage of what they 
see as a “big” market, and excited investors are rewarding 
them with large market capitalizations.
3
A Preview of Canadian Legalization
¨Lots of people smoke weed: According to theCanadian 
national census, 42.5% of Canadians have tried 
Marijuana and about 16% had used it in the recent past 
(last 3 months), with the percentages climbing among 
younger Canadians, where one in three being recent 
users.
¨And spend money to do so: The total revenues from 
recreational marijuana sales in Canada alone is expected 
to be $7-8 billion in 2020 and grow at a healthy rate after 
that. Some of this will represent a shifting from the 
illegal market (estimated at close to $5 billion in 2017) 
and some of it will represent new users drawn in its legal 
status.
4
Experience in Colorado & California
¨In California, where legalization occurred at the start of 
2018, revenues from cannabis are expected to be about 
$3.4 billion in 2018, but that is not a huge jump from the 
$3 billion in revenues in the illegal market in 2017. 
¨In Colorado, where recreational marijuana use has been 
legal since 2014, the revenues from selling marijuana 
have increased from $996 million in 2015 to $1,25 billion 
in 2016 to $1,47 billion in 2017, representing solid, but 
not spectacular, growth. Cannabis-related businesses, 
though, have had trouble generating profits.
5
General lessons
¨ The illegal marijuana market will persist after legalization: Legalization brings costs, 
regulations and taxes, which make the cost of legal weed higher than its illegal 
counterpart. The other is cultural, where a segment of long-time weed smokers will be 
reluctant to give up their traditional ways of acquiring and using weed. 
¨ There will be growth in recreational marijuana sales, but it will be moderate: For those 
who are expecting a sudden surge of new users, as a result of legalization, the results 
from the parts of the world that have legalized should be sobering. In most of these 
parts, 
¨ The medical marijuana market growth will be driven more by research indicating its 
value in health care than by popularity contests. The bad news is that this will require 
navigating the time-consuming and cash-burning FDA regulatory approval process but 
the good news is that once approved, there is less likely to be pushback, cultural or 
legal, against its use. marijuana.
¨ Federal laws matter: If you are a company in the weed business in one of the nine 
states that has legalized marijuana, your operations may be legal in the state that you 
operate in, you are at risk any time your operations require you to cross state lines and 
as we noted with Colorado businesses, when you pay federal taxes.
6
The Business Question
¨Not all big businesses are profitable or value creating, 
since for a big business to be value creating, it has to 
players with with competitive advantages or barriers to 
entry. 
¨If you are an investor in this space, you also have to start 
thinking about how companies will set themselves apart 
from each other, once the business matures. 
¨To see how companies in this business will evolve, it is 
important that you separate the recreational from the 
medical cannabis businesses, since each will face 
different challenges.
7
I. Recreational Marijuana
¨Like tobacco and alcohol, the recreational marijuana business will grow 
with a wink and a nod towards its side costs and potential to be a 
gateway to more potent and addictive substances. Like tobacco and 
alcohol, marijuana will face both constraints and regulations.
¨The question then becomes whether, like alcohol and tobacco, the 
cannabis will become a brand-name driven business, where having a 
stronger brand name allows the winners to charge higher prices and earn 
better margins or whether it devolves into a commodity business, where 
there is little to differentiate between the offerings of different 
companies, leading to commoditization and low margins. 
¨If it is the former, the most successful businesses in the space will bring 
marketing and branding skills to the table and if it is the latter, it will be 
economies of scale, and low-cost production that will be the 
differentiator.
8
II. Medical Marijuana
¨The medical marijuana business will more closely 
resemble pharmaceutical companies, where the 
business will have to work with health care regulators 
and economics. 
¨Success in this business will come from finding a 
blockbuster cannabis-based drug that can then be sold 
at premium prices. 
¨If our experience with young pharmaceutical and biotech 
companies is an indicator, this would suggest that to 
succeed in this business, a company will need continued 
access to capital from investors with patience, a strong 
research presence and an understanding of the 
regulatory approval process.
9
Investment Considerations: The Landscape
10
Be a trader!
¨Like all young businesses, this segment is currently 
dominated by trading and pricing, not investing and 
valuation. 
¨Companies are being priced based upon potential 
market size and incremental information. Put simply, 
small and seemingly insignificant news stories will cause 
big swings in stock prices. 
¨If you are a good trader, this is a great time to play the 
game, since you can use your skills at detecting 
momentum shifts to make money as the stock goes up 
and again as it goes down.
11
InvestorChoices
¨The Concentrated Pick: Pick a stock or two that you believe is most suited 
to succeed in the business, as it matures. To succeed at this strategy, you 
have to be right on your macro assessment, but if you do, this approach 
has the potential to have the biggest payoff.
¨Spread your bets: If your views about how the business will evolve are 
diffuse, but you do believe that there will be strong overall revenue 
growth and ultimate profitability, you can buy a portfolio of marijuana 
stocks. The upside is that you just have to be right, on average, for this 
strategy to pay off, but the downside is that these companies are all richly 
priced, given the overall optimism about the market today. You also have 
to worry that the ultimate winner may not be on the list of stocks that are 
listed today, but a new entrant who has not shown up yet.
¨The Indirect Play: Watch for established players to also jump in, with 
tobacco and alcohol stocks entering the recreational weed business, and 
pharmaceutical companies the medical weed business. You may get a 
better payoff investing in these established companies, many of which are 
priced for low growth and declining margins.
12
MyChoice!
¨It may be indication of my age, but I really don’t have a strong 
enough handle on this market and what makes it tick to make 
an early bet on competitive advantages. So, I will pass on 
picking the one or two winners in the market. 
¨Given how euphoric investors have been since the 
legalization of weed in Canada in pushing up cannabis stock 
prices, I think this is the wrong time to buy the ETF ,especially 
since sector is going to draw in new players. 
¨That leaves me with the third and final choice, which is to 
invest in a company that is not viewed as being in the 
business but has a significant stake in it nevertheless. At 
current stock prices, neither Scott Miracle-Gronor GW 
Pharmaceuticals looks like a good bet, but I think that my 
choices will get richer in the years to come. I can wait!
