Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/InvPhil.pdf

The pathway to investment serenity!
2
§During periods of uncertainty in markets, it is natural to feel 
unsettled and off balance. I find that it helps to have a core set of 
beliefs about markets and investing to go back to, during these 
times, to get back to stable ground.
§There are two classes that I teach at New York University's 
Stern School of Business every year -a class on corporate 
finance to the first-year MBAs and two classes on valuation, one to 
the second-year MBAs and one to undergraduates. There is a third 
class that I do teach in the certificate programthat I have never 
taught in-person at New Y ork University, and it is a class on 
investment philosophies. It is the least technical of my classes, 
and while I find it the most nettlesomeof the three classes I teach, 
it is also the one that I learn the most from, even as I am teaching it. 
§I not only have a free online version of this class as well, but also 
a book that I wrote to accompany it, close to two decades ago, with 
a third edition available soonat your local bookseller.
3
§In the late 1990s, I was approached by the Stern School of 
Business about serving as the organizer for a class on 
investing, where MBA students would hear from successful 
investors of all stripes in one session a week, and discuss what 
they learned from that talk in the second session each week. 
§Over the course of the semester, the class had fourteen 
speakers, and it drew from a range of investing types. The 
speakers approached investing in very different ways and had 
different perspectives on financial markets and how to exploit 
their mistakes, but they all had been successful in delivering 
investment success.
§I noticed students in my class develop whiplash, as they 
instinctively try to incorporate those views and practices 
into their thinking.  As the weeks went on, that became a 
problem, since other than investment success, the speakers 
shared very little, and their views about markets were 
sometimes contradictory.
4
§There are very few active investors,  who win consistently over time: Since you 
can match the market or even investment style (value, growth etc.) by 
investing in index funds, active investing has the unenviable task of 
trying to be better than average, and by enough to cover the costs 
associated with being active. 
§Even with those successful few, it is very difficult to separate luck from 
skill:Much as investment books and classes claim otherwise, investing 
results are affected by so many forces that are out of your control that 
disentangling how much of your final returns can be attributed to skill 
and how much to luck is very difficult to do.
§These successful investors have widely different pathways to delivering 
success:If you were to make a list of the hundred investors who have had 
the most success in markets in the last century, I would wager that you 
would be looking at a very diverse group, not just in terms of how they 
succeeded, but also in terms of personality. 
§Imitating successful investors does not seem to provide much payoff: The 
practices of successful investors are probed and investigated by other 
investors and journalists, and some of them have dozens of books that 
claim to tell you the secret of their success. Imitating those practices 
does not seem to deliver the same returns.
5
§I should start with a definition of what I mean by an investment 
philosophy, and perhaps the best way to do that is by 
describing what it is not. 
§First, an investment philosophy is much richer and complete than 
an investment strategy, with the latter often coming out of the 
former. 
§Second, an investment philosophy is not an investment slogan. 
"Buy low, sell high" is an investment slogan, and a meaningless one 
at that, since that is the end game of almost every investment 
philosophy.
§Everyone needs an investment philosophy , a set of 
centralized beliefs about markets and how they work.
6
§Chasing winners: If you don't have an investment philosophy, it is 
almost a given that you will find yourself drawn to whatever 
strategies worked best in the recent past. Y our portfolio will 
suffer from whiplashas you chase last year's winners and while 
your turnover and transactions costs rise, you will have little to 
show for those costs in terms of returns.
§Scam target:Without an investment philosophy constraining you, 
you will be an easy mark for investment scams, where the 
scammers will promise you exceptional alphas (excess returns) 
from novel strategies.
§Empty investing cupboards: If you do find an investment strategy 
that works at delivering returns, it is worth remembering that the 
clock is ticking, and that imitation and market corrections will 
cause that strategy to stop working, sooner rather than later. If 
that is all you brought to the market, your investing cupboard will 
be empty and you will find yourself running to stay in place.
7
8
§If, as we noted in the last section, doing nothing can deliver 
returns approximating the average, and nine out of ten 
investors who try to beat the average fail, there is no shame in 
adopting a passive indexing philosophy, where your 
allocation across asset classes is determined by your risk 
aversion and need for liquidity, and index funds fill out the rest 
of the dance card. 
§It is human nature, though, to seek to be better than 
average, and it is perhaps that desire that drives many into 
active investing choices, and there are multiple pathways that 
they can adopt.
9
10
§Price traders, and perhaps largest grouping, uses the 
information on prices and trading volume to detect shifts in 
mood and momentum, with charts and technical indicators as 
tools, to try and generate profits. 
§Information traders, trades around information releases, in 
the form of earnings reports, acquisition announcements or 
even insider trades, with some trading ahead of the news, some 
at the time the news is announced and some in the aftermath, 
all trying to take advantage of what they see as market mistakes 
in reacting to that information. 
§Arbitrageurs, focused on finding the same or related assets 
trading on different markets, looking for mispricing across 
these markets, and locking in that mispricing as excess 
returns.
11
12
§In market timing, your focus is less on individual and more 
on deciding whether a market (equities, bonds, real estate 
etc.) is under or overpriced. 
§Returning to the investment process, your focus is on allocating 
your portfolio across asset classes, based on your market views, 
underweighting "expensive" classes and overweighting "cheap" 
ones.
§In stock/asset picking, you take the market as a given and try 
to find the best individual investments within each investment 
class for you -the cheapest stocks, bonds and real estate 
that you can find. 
§There is an ironic contradiction in making this choice. It is 
undeniable that a successful market timer will make far 
more money than a good stock picker, but it is also true that 
it is much more difficult to be a successful market timer 
than it is to be a good stock picker.
13
14
§Even the firmest believer in efficient markets will 
concedethat markets not only make mistakes, but they 
sometimes make big ones, but the divergence between them and 
active investors lies in what these mistakes will look like. 
§In an efficient market, market mistakes will be random, and since 
there is no systematic pattern to them, there is no pathway for active 
investors to find these mistakes, even with access to data and powerful 
tools. 
§Active investors, in contrast, believe that there are systematic patterns 
that you can use to find these mistakes, and take advantage of them, 
with traders believing that those patterns are in the pricing and volume 
data and investors hewing more to fundamentals.
§That said, active investors can and will disagree about the types of 
market mistakes, with some buying into the notion that markets 
learn slowly, whereas others believe that markets overreact.For 
markets to function, it is healthy for investors to disagree about 
market mistakes and corrections.
15
16
§On the transactions cost front, the brokerage trading cost is 
just a small part of the overall cost, with two other costs that can 
often be much larger. The first is the bid-ask spread, small for 
large, very liquid stocks, but much larger for smaller and less 
liquid investments. The second is price impact, again non-
existent if you are a small investor buying or selling shares in a 
large market-cap company, but substantial if you are a large 
investor trading on an obscure stock.
§On the tax front, some strategies will create more tax costs 
than others, partly because of how investment income is taxed 
(dividends create immediate tax consequences but capital 
gains require trading to incur tax liabilities) and partly because 
of how much trading your strategy will require of you. Trading 
strategies, built around momentum, can require you to trade 
multiple times in a day, and that turnover will have tax effects.
17
§Capital to invest: If you are just starting on your investment journey, and have 
only a small amount of capital to invest, your choices in terms of investment 
strategies narrow. The good news is that you continue to build up your capital, 
your investment choices will widen, and you can modify your portfolio 
accordingly. At the other end of the spectrum, and this is perhaps more the case 
if you are managing other people's money, you can have so much capital to 
invest that some investment strategies become infeasible again. 
§Time horizon: The truth is that for most investors, time horizon is as much 
determined by external factors, such as age, health and liquidity needs, as it is 
by internal motivations. If you have to pay tuition for your children or expect to 
have substantial hospital bills in the near future, your time horizon just became 
shorter, and that has to be factored into your choice of investment strategies.
§Risk exposure:As with time horizon, the willingness to take risk is partly a 
function of your personal makeup and partly determined by your life standing.
§Personal qualities: Your personality and characteristics also come into play in 
your choice of investment philosophy and strategies. If you are, by nature, 
impatient, it is unlikely that you will be able to sustain a strategy of buying 
undervalued companies and waiting for a long time for mistakes to correct.
18
§Economic setting: Over time, economic settings and structures change, and 
investment philosophies have to adapt or even be abandoned. 
§Market lessons:Yo u r  v iew s o n  m arke t m istake s c o m e  fro m  lo o k in g  at d ata 
and your own experiences in the market, and as a consequence, they 
should be revisited as markets change over time. Just in this century, it is 
becoming increasingly obvious that assets across classes (stocks, real 
estate etc) and geographies are moving far more in sync than they did in 
the last century. That reality has to be integrated into your market views 
and the investment philosophy/strategies that you use.
§Trading microstructure: It is undeniable that access to information and 
trading on most assets has become easier over the last few decades. That 
is good, but it does come with a cost. Investment philosophies built around 
the assumption that most investors, especially retail and individual, would 
not be able to access data or trade easily, may need tweaking, adapting or 
even abandonment.
§Personal changes: It won't come as no secret to you, but you will older, the 
amount of capital you have to invest will change, your health and family 
obligations will shift, and you may evenbecome more or less patient or 
more or less susceptible to peer pressure. Those factors will all feed into 
your investment philosophy.
Chapter Coverage
1 An Investment Philosophy?
2 Risk
3-4 Accounting & Valuation
5 Transactions costs & taxes
6 Testing investment strategies
7 Technical analysis
8 Value Investing
9 Growth Investing
10 Trading on information
11 Arbitrage & Long/Short 
12 Market Timing
13 Doing nothing?
14 Alternative Investments
15 Finding your philosophy
Session Coverage
1 An Investment Philosophy?
2-4 Risk
5 Accounting & Valuation
6 Transactions costs & taxes
7-8 Testing investment strategies
9-11 Technical analysis
12-16 Value Investing
17-21 Growth Investing
22-26 Trading on information
27-29 Arbitrage & Long/Short 
30-34 Market Timing
35-37 Passive Indexing
38-41 Alternative Investments
42 Finding your philosophy
21
§We all share the same end game in investing, which is that we 
want to generate the highest returns on the capital we invest, 
though there are wide variations in how much risk we are 
willing to take and how long we will wait before cashing out. 
§That is the definition of investment success but given that there 
are so many forces that are out of our control, you can do 
everything right and still fail in meeting your objectives. 
§It is for that reason that a better endgame for investors is to 
seek out investment serenity, where you choose an investment 
path that you are comfortable with, and accept the results that 
emerge from it, good or bad.
22
§Intrinsic value matters: It is no secret that I believe that every asset (anything that generates cash 
flows) has a intrinsic value, and that with imagination and a willingness to be wrong, you can 
estimate that intrinsic value for any company, from start-ups to companies on the verge of default. 
§Markets are for the most part right, but make mistakes during periods of uncertainty and change: 
In an age where we have turned over our choices on what movies to watch to Rotten Tomatoes and 
which restaurant to eat at to Yelp!, it is worth remembering that markets were the original fount for 
crowd wisdom. That said, it is also true that markets have provided us with examples of crowd 
madness, where the collective wisdom is hopelessly wrong, and I believe that this is the case 
when investors face uncommon uncertainty, as is the case when companies transition from one 
stage of the life cycle to another, when entire industry groups are faced with the threat of 
disruption and when markets are put into upheaval by crises.
§Do no harm: While I seek out investments to make that will beat the market, I am cognizant of the 
reality that I am not entitled to rewards, just because I put in the work, and that luck and chance 
still can wreak havoc on my best-laid plans. In particular, I have learned, through experience, that 
my biggest mistakes come from overreach and overactivity, and I build that learning into my 
investment philosophy by:
§Spreading my bets: I must confess that I don’t share the conviction that concentrated investors bring to the 
game, and not only spread my portfolio over three dozen stocks, but also follow rigid rules on not letting any 
single investment exceed 15% of my portfolio.
§Staying away from my weaknesses: I steer away from active market timing and sector bets for a simple reason. I 
am not good at either.
§Being aware of my blind spots: I try to be self-aware, though I don’t always succeed. I know that I am thrown off 
my game plan by taxes (I don’t like playing them, and that sometimes gets in the way of doing what I should be 
doing) and I sometimes fall in love with company narratives, because I want them to be true.
