Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session6A.pdf

SESSION 6A: RATIO ANALYSIS
Accounting for Finance
2
Financial Ratios: A Life Cycle Perspective
3
1. Profitability Ratios
4
And analysis…
¨Young to old: Young companies often have negative or 
very low margins, for two reasons:
¤They are still building up their revenues
¤Some of their operating expenses are associated with future 
growth, not current operations.
¨Business Differences: High gross margin businesses have 
the advantage: Companies like Coca Cola (brand name 
consumer product) and Dr. Reddy’s Labs 
(pharmaceutical) start with sky-high gross margins, 
which then feed into high operating and net margins.
¨Leverage Effects: Companies with high debt ratios can 
have low net margins, while operating margins stay high.
5
2. Accounting Returns
6
Reflections of…
¨Competitive Advantages: If accounting returns are fair 
measure of true returns, they are the repository for 
competitive advantages. 
¤Industries where barriers to entry are high or other competitive 
advantages prevail should have higher returns on capital than 
companies without these advantages.
¤Companies with strong competitive advantages within an 
industry should earn higher returns than their peer group.
¨Accounting choices and inconsistencies: Accounting can 
affect and sometimes skew returns:
¤By misclassifying capital, operating and financial expenses
¤By taking write offs to reflect mistakes made in the past.
7
3. Efficiency Ratios
8
The dark side of growth
¨The growth trade off: Growth has a good side, insofar as 
it lets a company scale up its operations, but it has a 
dark side, which is that companies have toreinvest to 
deliver that growth.
¨Scaling up measure: Turnover ratios look at the link 
between what a company has toreinvest, and how much 
its revenues grow over time. Companies that are more 
efficient on this measure will be able to grow revenues, 
with less reinvestment.
¤Young to old: The link between company age and turnover ratios 
will vary across different business types, with older companies 
becoming more efficient in some, and less in others.
¤Accounting effects: The problems associated with accounting 
choices and inconsistencies will affect turnover ratios as well.
9
4. Debt Ratios
10
Debt, the double edgedsword
¨Source of capital: Debt is a source of capital for a business, 
just as equity is. There is nothing inherently good or bad 
about it, but in most parts of the world, it is a trade off 
between tax benefits that accrue to borrowing and distress 
risk.
¨Measurement choices: When comparing across companies, 
you have tomeasure debt consistently across companies. 
However, it is usually better to focus on
¤Total debt, rather than a subset of debt
¤Market value, rather than book value
¨Gross vs Net Debt: While the rationale for netting cash out 
from debt is impeccable, cash is a transient asset, here today 
and can be gone tomorrow.
11
5. Coverage & Liquidity Ratios
12
And analysis…
¨Safety in numbers: All else held equal, companies that 
score higher on interest and fixed charge coverage ratios 
should have more buffer than companies that score 
lower .
¨Normalization? That said, the ratios can be skewed by 
year-to-year changes, especially in operating income and 
debt repayments. 
¤For companies in volatile businesses, this can translate into big 
swings in coverage ratios from good to bad years. The solution is 
to use an average across time.
¤For young companies, the coverage ratios can look bad, at least 
as they start the growth process, but these companies can grow 
operating income quickly to gain buffers.
13
Final Thoughts
¨Less is more: If youdecide to use financial ratios, less 
is more. Choosetheratiosthat you want, rather 
than create noise by computing multiple ratios.
¨A means to an end: Ratios, by themselves, are just 
numbers and mean nothing, unless you use them to 
make judgments about what your company  does 
well or badly, and how this affects your perspective 
for the company.
¨Past versus future: While your ratios are in the past, 
investing and corporate finance are about the 
future.
