Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2024.pdf

DATA UPDATE 2 FOR 2024: A 
STOCK COMEBACK –THE LOW 
EXPECTATIONS GAME!
Winning is easy, when not much is expected…
2
The Lead in..
¨At the start of 2023, US equities looked like they were heading into 
a sea of troubles, with inflation out of control and a recession 
coming up. 
¤While stocks had ups and downs during the year, they ended the year 
strong, and recouped, at least in the aggregate, most of the losses from 
2022. 
¤That positive result, notwithstanding, the recovery was uneven, with a big 
chunk of the increase in market capitalization coming from seven 
companies (Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, NVidia and 
Tesla) and w ide divergences across stocks, in perform ance. 
¨As we start 2024, it looks expectations have been reset, with most 
forecasters now expecting the economy to glide in for a soft 
landing and interest rates to decline, and while that may seem like 
good news, it will represent a challenge for equity market 
investors.
3
A Look Back at 2023, in months..
4
The 2023 Scorecard for Stocks
5
A Historical Perspective..
6
Returns, by Sector…
7
And by region…
8
Looking forward..
¨ While there is comfort in looking backwards, slicing and dicing data 
in the hope of getting clues for the future, investing is about the 
future. 
¨Much as we like to believe that history repeats itself, and find 
patterns even when they do not exist, the nature of markets makes 
them difficult to forecast, precisely because they are driven not by 
what happens on the ground (to the economy, inflation and other 
fundamentals), but by how these results compare to expectations. 
¨Going into 2024, investors are clearly in a better mood about what 
is to come this year, than they were a year ago, but they are pricing 
in that better mood. To capture the market's mood, I back out the 
expected return (and equity risk premiuM) that investors are 
pricing in, through an implied equity risk premium:
9
A Forward-looking Expected Return in 
2024
10
The Contrast with 2023…
11
On a monthly basis, in 2022 and 2023..
12
And over time…
13
Judging the ERP!
14
An Alternate (and more Conventional) 
Metric of Stocks!
15
Taking a Stand…
¨I am not a market timer, but I do value the market at regular 
intervals, more to get a measure of what the market is pricing in, 
than to forecast future movements. In valuing the index, I follow 
the intrinsic value rulebook, where the value is determined by 
expectations of cash flows in the future, discounted back to adjust 
their risk.
• To get expected cash flows, I start w ith expectations of earnings from  the 
equities that comprise the index. For the S&P 500, the most widely 
followed equity index, I use the consensus estimates of aggregate earnings 
for 2024 and 2025, from analysts following the index. 
• The cash flows to equity investors, especially in the United States, have 
increasingly taken the form of buybacks, rather than just dividends. In 
2023, dividends and buybacks on the S&P 500 index amounted to $1.367 
trillion, 164.25 in index units, with 57.6% of these cash flows coming from, 
buybacks. As a percent of earnings, this represented 74.8% of earnings in 
that year, representing a decline from payout ratios during this century 
(2000-2022).
16
Valuing the Index on 1/1/24
17
What if?
Aswath Damodaran
19
Caveat Emptor!
Aswath Damodaran
¨Before you take my market prognostications at face, please do consider 
my open disclosure that I am not a market.  I do not plan to act on this 
market valuation by buying puts on the index or even be altering the 
equity portion of my portfolio.
¨So, why bother? There are times in the past, when the overvaluation of 
the market is so large that it operates as a red flag on investing in 
equities, as an asset class, in general.  That signalworked in early 2000 
but did not in early 2008, and it is thus a noisy one. 
¨More generally, though, valuing the market gives me perspective, and 
allows me to put make sense of both bullish and bearish views on the 
market. 
¤Investors and analysts who believe that rates will continue to decline, with a strong 
economy delivering higher-than-expected earnings, will see significant upside in 
this market
¤Investors and analysts who believe that stubbornly higher inflation will cause rates 
to rise, and that earnings will come in below expectations will be more likely to be 
part of the doomsday crowd.
