Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TheoTrifecta.pdf

THE THEOCRATIC TRIFECTA: 
DECODING ESG, SUSTAINABILITY 
AND STAKEHOLDER WEALTH
Morality plays in markets!
2
The End Game in Business
¨Businesses have always struggled with mission statements. 
Put simply, what should the end game of a business?
¤The simplest and most pragmatic answer is that it is to sell products 
and services that customers want, while generating the most you can 
in profits for their owners, over the long term.
¤The pushback, often from non-business critics, has been that 
businesses should also serve society, not just minimizing social costs 
but also providing social benefits. 
¨In recent years, that pushback has found backing within 
business, with movements to expand business missions:
¤To put business sustainability first
¤To maximize the value to all stakeholders, not just owners
¤To incorporate environmental, social and governance goals
Corporate Finance 101
4
A business has many stakeholders…
5
In running a business, one of these stakeholders 
has to be given primacy…
Aswath Damodaran5
¨In traditional corporate finance, the objective in decision making is to 
maximize the value of the firm. 
¨A narrower objective is to maximize stockholder wealth. When the stock 
is traded and markets are viewed to be efficient, the objective is to 
maximize the stock price.
Assets Liabilities
Assets in Place Debt
Equity
Fixed Claim on cash flows
Little or No role in management
Fixed Maturity
Tax Deductible
Residual Claim on cash flows
Significant Role in management
Perpetual Lives
Growth Assets
Existing Investments
Generate cashflows today
Includes long lived (fixed) and 
short-lived(working 
capital) assets
Expected Value that will be 
created by future investments
Maximize 
firm value
Maximize equity 
value
Maximize market 
estimate of equity 
value
6
Giving corporate finance its focus…
Aswath Damodaran6
The Investment Decision
Invest in assets that earn a 
return greater than the 
minimum acceptable hurdle 
rate
The Financing Decision
Find the right kind of debt 
for your ﬁrm and the right 
mix of debt and equity to 
fund your operations 
The Dividend Decision
If you cannot ﬁnd investments 
that make your minimum 
acceptable rate, return the cash 
to owners of your business
The hurdle rate 
should reﬂect the 
riskiness of the 
investment and 
the mix of debt 
and equity used 
to fund it.
The return  
should reﬂect the 
magnitude and 
the timing of the 
cashﬂows as well 
as all side effects.
The optimal 
mix of debt 
and equity 
maximizes ﬁrm 
value
The right kind 
of debt 
matches the 
tenor of your 
assets
How much 
cash you can 
return 
depends upon 
current  & 
potential 
investment 
opportunities
How you choose 
to return cash to 
the owners will 
depend on 
whether they 
prefer dividends 
or buybacks
Maximize the value of the business (ﬁrm)
7
Intrinsic Value: The Drivers
Aswath Damodaran7
8
Theme 1: Corporate finance is “common sense”
Aswath Damodaran8
¨There is nothing earth shattering about any of the first 
principles that govern corporate finance. 
¤Arguing that taking investments that make 9% with funds that cost 
10% to raise seems to be stating the obvious (the investment decision)
¤So is noting that it is better to find a funding mix which costs 10%  
instead of 11% (the financing decision) 
¤And positing that if most of your investment opportunities generate 
returns less than your cost of funding, it is best to return the cash to 
the owners of the business and shrink the business.
¨Shrewd business people, notwithstanding their lack of 
exposure to corporate finance theory, have always recognized 
these fundamentals and put them into practice.
9
Theme 2: Corporate finance is focused…
Aswath Damodaran9
¨It is the focus on maximizing the value of the business 
that gives corporate finance its focus. As a result of this 
singular objective, we can
¤Choose the “right”investment decision rule to use, given a 
menu of such rules.
¤Determine the “right”mix of debt and equity for a specific 
business
¤Examine the “right”amount of cash that should be returned to 
the owners of a business and the “right”amount to hold back as 
a cash balance.
¨This certitude does come at a cost. To the extent that 
you accept the objective of maximizing firm value, 
everything in corporate finance makes complete sense. If 
you do not, nothing will.
10
Theme 3: Corporate finance is universal…
Aswath Damodaran10
¨Every business, small or large, public or private, US or emerging 
market, has to make investment, financing and dividend decisions.
¨The objective in corporate finance for all of these businesses 
remains the same: maximizing value.
¨While the constraints and challenges that firms face can vary 
dramatically across firms, the first principles do not change.
¤A publicly traded firm, with its greater access to capital markets and more 
diversified investor base, may have much lower costs of debt and equity 
than a private business, but they both should look for the financing mix 
that minimizes their costs of capital.
¤A firm in an emerging market may face greater uncertainty, when 
assessing new investments, than a firm in a developed market, but both 
firms should invest only if they believe they can generate higher returns on 
their investments than they face as their respective (and very different) 
hurdle rates.
11
Theme 4: If you violate first principles, you will 
pay a price, no matter who you are..
Aswath Damodaran11
¨There are some investors/analysts/managers who 
convince themselves that the first principles don’t 
apply to them because of their superior education, 
standing or past successes, and then proceed to put 
into place strategies or schemes that violate first 
principles.
¤Sooner or later, these strategies will blow up and create 
huge costs.
¤Almost every corporate disaster or bubble has its origins in 
a violation of first principles.
12
The Pushback..
¨Many have argued that giving shareholders primacy is bad for 
companies (separating them from shareholders), unfair to 
other stakeholders, and bad for society.
¤Those who believe that markets are short term and that companies 
can create significant untraceable costs to society (externalities) argue 
that the objective should be to build the most sustainable (rather than 
the most valuable) business.
¤Those who believe that it is unfair to other stakeholders argue that a 
much better model would be one that maximizes stakeholder wealth, 
and many strategists and even CEOs seem to have bought into that 
argument.
¤Those who believe that it is bad for society has pushed for a different 
model, where ”goodness” operates not just as a constraint but is a 
central objective for businesses. This is the ESG framework.
Nothing lasts (or should last) forever!
The Myth of Sustainability
14
The Corporate Life Cycle
15
The determinants of the life cycle
The Length/Value of the Harvest (Mature phase)
1. Growth in overall market
2. Magnitude of competitive advantages 
3. Sustainability of competitive advantages 
Speed of Ascendancy
1. Growth in potential market
2. Ease of scaling up
3. Customer Inertia (Stickiness of 
existing product or service)
Failure Rate
1. Ease of entry into market
2. Easy Access to capital
3. Investment needs
4. Time lag to market
The Decline
1. Ease of entry ito market
2. Access to capital
3. Investment needs
4. Time lag to market
The Corporate Life Cycle: Drivers and Determinants
The End Game
1. Ease of liquidation
2. Value of salvageable assets
16
Tech versus Non-tech life cycles
Tech ﬁrm life cycle Non-tech ﬁrm life cycle
Tech companies 
are able to climb 
the growth ladder 
faster because their 
growth requires 
less investment and 
their products are 
more likely to be 
accepted quickly by 
consumers.
Tech companies don't have long "mature" periods, where 
they get to live off the fat, because disruption is always 
around the corner.
Tech companies also 
have more precipitous 
declines from grace,  for 
the same reason that 
they climbed so fast, i.e, 
new companies rise 
faster to take their 
business.
Non-tech companies take longer 
to grow, partly because they 
need more investment to grow 
and partly because consumer 
inertia (attachment to existing 
products) is more deeply set.
 
Non-tech companies 
decline over long periods 
and may even ﬁnd ways to 
live on as smaller, more 
focused versions of their 
original selves.
Non-tech companies get longer "mature " period, 
where they get to milk their cash cows.
17
The emphasis in corporate finance shifts..
The Midlife Crisis
Revenues
Earnings
Time
The Bar Mitzvah
The Product Test
The Lightbulb (Idea) Moment
The Scaling up Test
The End Game
Young 
Growth
Start-up Mature 
Growth
DeclineHigh GrowthLifecycle stage Mature 
Stable
New product 
development
Market 
testing and 
build up
Scale up 
production
Augment 
capacity + 
New Products
Maintain 
capacity + 
Acquisitions
Reduce 
capacityInvesting Policy
Financing Policy
Dividend Policy
Equity funding, 
debt only if 
desperate
Cash burn, 
with equity 
infusions
Equity, public 
market 
option
Cash burn 
maximized
Equity mainly, 
with some 
debt capacity
Beginnings of 
positive cash 
ﬂows
Debt capacity 
increases
Cash buildup, 
if not returned
Debt capacity 
maximized
Peak cash 
returns
Debt scales 
down with ﬁrm
Cash return 
from asset 
divestitures
18
In value, the emphasis shifts as well, from 
narrative to numbers…
19
And the focus changes.... And so does the right 
CEO for the company
20
Companies, act your age!
¨For many reasons, companies try to speed up or slow 
down aging 
¤Young companies that borrow money to grow faster, invest without 
a purpose or with too much focus on short term profits or pay 
dividends.
¤Mature growth companies that act young and refuse to return 
cash.
¤Stable companies that try to be growth companies through 
acquisitions.
¤Declining companies  that think they can reverse decline, with new 
management and a new business plan.
Companies that don’t “act their age” will not only destroy 
value for their owners but will also be drags on the 
economy.
21
The Dream of Reincarnation.. 
¨The dream of mature and declining companies is rebirth, 
i.e., the possibility that they can rediscover their youth, 
and become young, growth companies again. 
¨In every period, there are a few companies that seem to 
succeed at this venture, and the companies and their 
CEOs become legendary, with case studies written about 
them.
¤In some of these companies, it is a combination of great 
management, luck and timing that allow for this success.
¤In others, the change is cosmetic.
¨There is an ecosystem that is built around these “success 
stories” that markets them to other aging companies.
22
The Sustainability Siren Song..
¨If the sales pitch of sustainability is that managers should 
make decisions based upon what is good for long term value, 
rather than stock price, and that businesses should minimize 
externalities, it is saying nothing new. 
¤Milton Friedman would have agreed with that statement, and it is 
actually at the basis of traditional corporate finance.
¤Sustainability experts are the last people you should be consulting on 
whether decisions increase value.
¨If the end game of sustainability is that companies should 
focus on “survival” and extending their corporate lives, it has 
lost its way. 
¤There is no glory in growth for the sake of growth, or in survival, for 
the sake of survival. That is a recipe for “walking dead” or ”zombie” 
companies.
23
Three Sustainability Models
¨The Enlighted one(s): In this model, those in charge of 
sustainability are capable (more so than the mere 
mortals that surround them at businesses) to see into 
the future and bring in long term consequences into 
decisions.
¨The Jiminy Cricket model: In this model, those in charge 
of sustainability acts as the corporate conscience, 
reminding decision makers of their responsibilities to 
society and the broader good.
¨The Mummy Makers: In this model, decision makers try 
to make companies live forever, no matter what the cost, 
and devise strategies to advance towards this end.
A fair solution or kumbaya moment?
Stakeholder Wealth Maximization
25
Maximize stakeholder wealth
¨A fairness argument:  To the extent that shareholder 
wealth maximization seems to, at least at first sight, put 
all other stakeholders in the back seat, it seems unfair .
¨An Easy Fix? The logical response seems to be 
stakeholder wealth maximization, where the collective 
wealth of all stakeholders is maximized. That is the 
promise of stakeholder wealth maximization.
¨Protective response: As corporations have found 
themselves losing the battle for public opinions, many 
CEOs and even some institutional investors seem to have 
bought into this idea.
Aswath Damodaran25
26
The Business Roundtable’s Message..
¨While each of our individual companies serves its own corporate purpose, 
we share a fundamental commitment to all of our stakeholders. We 
commit to:
¤Delivering value to our customers. We will further the tradition of American 
companies leading the way in meeting or exceeding customer expectations.
¤Investing in our employees. This starts with compensating them fairly and 
providing important benefits. It also includes supporting them through training and 
education that help develop new skills for a rapidly changing world. We foster 
diversity and inclusion, dignity and respect.
¤Dealing fairly and ethically with our suppliers.We are dedicated to serving as 
good partners to the other companies, large and small, that help us meet our 
missions.
¤Supporting the communities in which we work. We respect the people in our 
communities and protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices 
across our businesses.
¤Generating long-term value for shareholders, who provide the capital that allows 
companies to invest, grow and innovate. We are committed to transparency and 
effective engagement with shareholders
27
Maximizing stockholder wealth often requires 
that you take care of other stakeholders…
¨Implicit in the stakeholder wealth maximization argument is 
the belief that what benefits stockholders make other 
stakeholders worse off. That is not true.
¤Maximizing stock price is not incompatible with meeting employee 
needs/objectives. In particular:
nEmployees are often stockholders in many firms
nFirms that maximize stock price generally are profitable firms that 
can afford to treat employees well.
¤Maximizing stock price does not mean that customers are not critical 
to success. In most businesses, keeping customers happy is the route 
to stock price maximization.
¤Maximizing stock price does not imply that a company has to be a 
social outlaw.
¨There are clearly exceptions, but to use those as the basis for 
a revolution is foolish.
28
If you still want to maximize stakeholder wealth, 
you risk confusion and paralysis…
Aswath Damodaran28
29
And if confused corporatism sounds like a good 
deal, some cautionary notes..
¨Government-owned companies: The managers of these 
companies were given a laundry list of objectives, resembling 
in large part the listing of stakeholder objectives, and told to 
deliver on them all. The end results were some of the most 
inefficient companies on the face of the earth, with every 
stakeholder group feeling ill-served in the process. 
¨US research universities: These entities lack a central focus, 
where whose interests dominate and why shifts, depending 
on who you talk to and when. The end result is not just 
economically inefficient operations, capable of running a 
deficit no matter how much tuition is collection, but one 
where every stakeholder group feels aggrieved.
Goodness requires sacrifice!
The ESG Bandwagon…
31
Why now?
¨50 years since Friedman: The first is that it is the fiftieth 
anniversary of one of themost influential opinion pieces in 
media history, where Milton Friedman argued that the focus 
of a company should be profitability, not social good. 
¨COVID and ESG: The second were multiple news stories about 
how "good" companies have done better during the COVID 
crisis and how much money was flowing into ESG funds.
¨The Establishment has bought in: The third is a more long-
standing story line, where the establishment seems to have 
bought into ESG consciousness, with business leaders in 
theConference Board signing on to a "stakeholder interest" 
statementlast year and institutional investors shifting more 
money into ESG funds.
32
Measuring ESG: Challenges
¨It is fuzzy: The first is that much of social impact is 
qualitative and developing a numerical value for that 
impact is difficult to do. 
¨And personal: The second is even trickier, which is that 
there is little consensus on what social impacts to 
measure, and the weights to assign to them. 
¨But it is still being measured: If your counter is that there 
are multiple services now that measure ESG at 
companies, you are right, but the lack of clarity and 
consensus results in the companies being ranked very 
differently by different services.
33
What is “goodness”?
¨As an investor, rank the following companies from 
best to worst purely on goodness:
Company
Your Rank  (1 = Best on ESG, 2 
(Worst on ESG)
Exxon Mobil
Tesla
Altria
Facebook
Microsoft
Coca Cola
Apple
34
What ESG Services think…
ISS ESG Ranking MSCI ESGI Rating S&P ESG Score
High Score = More ESG RiskHigher Rating = Better on ESGHigh Score = Less ESG Risk
Microsoft (15) Microsoft (AAA) Microsoft (58)
Apple (17) Coca Cola (AA) Altria (37)
Altria (25) Tesla (A) Exxon Mobil (36)
Facebook (25) Exxon Mobil (BBB) Coca Cola (33)
Coca Cola (25) Apple (BBB) Apple (29)
Tesla (31) Altria (BB) Tesla (15)
Exxon Mobil (35) Facebook (B) Facebook (14)
35
Value Issues for Investors
36
ESG Services disagree…
37
Even on high profile companies…
38
As ESG disclosures increase..
Source: Chen et al, JPM
39
ESG scores are improving across the board…
Source: Chen et al, JPM
This study also finds that a company’s ESG score 
improves as the number of ESG data items it reports 
go up.
40
But what are these ESG scores measuring?
Source: Chen et al, JPM
Based upon MSCI ESG 
score, lowest to highest
41
If your answer is risk… look again
42
And the differences will not only persist…
¨There are some who believe that this reflects a measurement 
process that is still evolving, and that as companies provide more 
disclosure on ESG data and ESG measurement services mature, 
there will be consensus. I don’t believe it, because.if there were 
consensus, it is unlikely that we would not need to convince 
businesses to reflect that consensus.
¨Even if you overlook disagreements on ESG as growing pains, there 
is one more component that adds noise to the mix and that is the 
direction of causality:
¤Do companies perform better because they are socially conscious (good) 
companies, or do companies that are doing well find it easier to do good?
¤Put simply, if ESG metrics are based upon actions/measures that 
companies that are doing better, either operationally and/or in markets, 
can perform/deliver more easily than companies that are doing badly, 
researchers will find that ESG and performance
43
But lead to gaming..
¨The nature of any scoring system is that the “scored” 
will learn (either because it explicitly lays out the 
components that lead to a high score) or scores can 
be reverse engineered to figure out what causes 
high and low scores.
¨The bottom line is that gaming is a feature of any 
scored system than a bug in the system. 
¨As scoring systems mature, the gaming gets easier 
(not harder) making the scores even less useful.
44
And if the scorers are themselves confused, the 
scored will hoist them on their petards…
45
The ESG Promises: Cake for all, with no calories!
¨For companies, the promise is that being "good" 
willgenerate higher profitsfor the company, at least in 
thelong term, with lower risk, and thus make them 
more valuable.
¨For investors in these companies, the promise is that 
investing in "good" companies willgenerate higher 
returnsthan investing in "bad" or middling companies.
¨For society, the promise is that not only would good 
companies helpfight problems directly related to ESG, 
like climate change and low wages, but also counter 
more general problems like income inequality and 
healthcare crises.
46
The ESG Questions
47
I. ESG and Value
The "It Proposition” applied to ESG: ForESG to affect value,  its 
practices have to show up in one or more of these inputs.
48
The Promise of Heaven : The Good shall be 
rewarded
49
Examples and Counters: Patagonia and Etsy
¨A company that is often used as an example of 
“goodness” is Patagonia, and the company has stayed 
true to its mission by:
¤Remaining an annual benefit corporation
¤Being willing to pay to do the “right” thing (at least as it sees 
them)
¤But is has paid the price (lower revenues, less in profits)
¨Etsy went public as a benefit corporation, but that 
mission clashed with its endgame of being a much larger 
player in online merchandising. It eventually abandoned 
its benefit corporation status, so as to be able to access 
more capital, and is now embroiled in public fights with 
the craftsmen who provide its merchandise.
50
The Warning of Hell: The Bad shall be punished
51
ESG’s biggest success? Fossil Fuel..
52
The Bad Guys win: Hell on Earth?
53
ESG and Growth
¨There have been very few studies that have looked at the 
link between ESG and growth. If there is any evidence of 
a link, it is that it becomes more difficult to wear the 
goodness cloak, as companies get bigger.
¨One simple comparison is between two companies, 
Patagonia, outspoken about its “purity of purpose” and 
Nike, accused of being more mushy in its ESG practices. 
¤Patagonia has revenues of less than a billion a year, and a 
focused market (of wealthy millennials).
¤Nike has revenues in excess of $40 billion and has to market its 
goods to a much wider audience.
54
ESG and Profitability
¨The link to profitability is weak: There aremeta studies(summaries 
of all other studies) that finda small positive link between ESG and 
profitability, but one that is very sensitive to how profits are 
measured and over what period. 
¨E, S and G have different payoffs: Breaking down ESG into its 
component parts,some studiesfind that environment (E) offered 
the strongest positive link to performance and social (S) the 
weakest, with governance (G) falling in the middle.Others find that 
governance is the dominant variable, but if so, it is the one variable 
that predates ESG and actually pushes in the opposite direction.
¨Uncertainty about direction of Causation: The studies that find a 
link between profitability and ESG scores face the question of 
which direction the causation runs: are good firms more profitable 
or are more profitable firms more likely to be picked as good firms?
55
And what’s with the meta studies?
¨ESG backers constantly point to meta studies, which are really 
an aggregation of studies done on a topic over time.
¨While there is a ”law of large numbers” reasoning that can be 
used to back up this practice, it is not a good one for many 
reasons:
¤Averaging studies that are done at different time periods, with 
different metrics yield averaging mush.
¤Averaging many studies averages out mistakes, but it does not 
eliminate bias. 
¨The cynical way of looking at meta studies is that they point 
to the absence of studies that can be trusted to stand on their 
own, either because their findings are specific to the sample 
that they are studying or the timing of the study (or worse).
56
ESG and Employee Satisfaction…
57
ESG and Funding Costs
¨There is a stronger Link to Funding Costs:Studies of “sin” stocks, 
i.e., companies involved in businesses such as producing alcohol, 
tobacco, and gaming, find that these stocks are less commonly held 
by institutions and that they face higher costs for funding, from 
equity and debt). 
¨The evidence for this is strongest in sectors like tobacco (starting in 
the 1990s) and fossil fuels (especially in the last decade), but these 
findings come with a troubling catch. While these companies face 
higher costs, and have lower value, investors in these companies 
generate higher returns.
¨If this is the argument, though, be clear about the consequences:
¤Equity investors in good companies will settle for much lower returns, 
given risk, on their investment than in bad companies.
¤Lenders to good companies will earn lower interest rates, given default 
risk, than lenders to bad companies.
58
ESG and Catastrophic Risk
¨Legal ≠ Sensible: The peril of playing fast and loose with the 
rules is that sooner or later, you will be entangled in a 
”scandal”, and that scandal will not only damage you in the 
near term but also create reputational damage that can 
haunt you in the long term.
¨There is a link to Failure/Disaster Risk: “Bad” companies are 
exposed to disaster risks, where a combination of missteps by 
the company, luck, and a failure to build in enough protective 
controls (because they cost too much) can cause a disaster, in 
human and financial terms. 
¤One studycreated a value-weighted portfolio of controversial firms 
that had a history of violating ESG rules and reported negative excess 
returns of 3.5% on this portfolio, even after controlling for risk, 
industry, and company characteristics.
59
Valeant: A Cautionary Tale
61
ESG and Value: Propositions
¨Proposition 1: Don’t be a “bad” company. The costs of being 
bad exceed any benefits you may get from operating close to 
the edge of what is legal or a business model that is at the 
edge of social acceptance.
¨Proposition 2: If you want to go beyond ”not being bad” and 
try to be “good” , do it with the recognition that goodness will 
often cost you in the short term (lost business, higher costs), 
and that you may not recover that cost even in the very, very 
long term. Put simply, the notion that being good is always 
good for value is nonsense.
¨Proposition 3: If being good is at the base of your business 
model, and you generate benefits from that perception, in 
terms of earnings and cash flows, you may have to accept a 
lower scale (and settle for being a smaller company).
62
II. ESG and Returns
¨Constrained optimal?To begin with, the notion that adding an ESG 
constraint to investing increases expected returns is counter intuitive. 
After all, a constrained optimum can, at best, match an unconstrained 
one, and most of the time, the constraint will create a cost. 
¨Truth in Advertising: In one of the few cases where honesty seems to have 
prevailed over platitudes, the TIAA-CREF Social Choice Equity Fund 
explicitly acknowledges this cost and uses it to explain its 
underperformance, stating that “The CREF Social Choice Account returned 
13.88 percent for the year [2017] compared with the 14.34 percent return 
of its composite benchmark … Because of its ESG criteria, the Account did 
not invest in a number of stocks and bonds ... the net effect was that the 
Account underperformed its benchmark.” 
¨Internal contradiction: In fact, there is an inherent contradiction, at least 
on the surface, between arguing that ESG leads to higher value and stock 
prices, made to CEOs and CFOs of companies, and simultaneously arguing 
that investors in ESG stocks will earn higher (positive excess) returns.
63
And the research is all over the place…
¨ Invest in bad companies: A comparisonof two Vanguard Index funds, the Vice fund 
(invested in tobacco, gambling, and defense companies) and the FTSE Social Index fund 
(invested in companies screened for good corporate behavior on multiple dimensions) 
and note that a dollar invested in the former in August 2002 would have been worth 
almost 20% more by 2015 than a dollar invested in the latter .
¨ Invest in good companies: At the other end of the spectrum, there are studies that 
seem to indicate that there are positive excess returns to investing in good 
companies.A studyshowed that stocks in the Anno Domini Index (of socially conscious 
companies) outperformed the market, but that the outperformance was more due to 
factor and industry tilts than to social responsiveness. Some of the strongest links 
between returns and ESG come from the governance portion, which, as we noted 
earlier, is ironic, because the essence of governance, at least as measured in most of 
these studies, is fealty to shareholder rights, which is at odds with the current ESG 
framework that pushes for a stakeholder perspective.
¨ ESG has no effect: Splitting the difference, there are other studies that find little or no 
differences in returns between good and bad companies. In fact, studies that more 
broadly look at factors that have driven stock returns for the last few decades find that 
much of the positive payoff attributed to ESG comes from its correlation with 
momentum and growth.
64
Why returns to ESG are tough to read…
65
The Pricing Effect
¨Put simply, a study that finds a relationship (positive, negative or 
zero) between ESG and returns is really a test of whether ESG is 
being priced in correctly and not one of whether ESG is good for 
investing or bad for investing.
¨The only worthwhile conclusion that you can draw is that investing 
in good companies (or avoiding investing in bad companies) will 
generate higher returns if the market is underpricing the “positive” 
effects of being good or the “negative” effects of being bad.
¨In fact, if ESG is front and center and investors are rushing into 
“good” companies and selling “bad” companies, the reverse will be 
true, i.e., the market will be overpricing the positive effects of 
being good and the negative effects of being bad. In this world, 
investing in bad companies will generate higher risk-adjusted 
returns that investing in good companies.
Two plays on ESG investing
¨ESG Exclusionary 
Investing
¤You remove firms that you 
classify as “bad” firms 
from your investment 
universe.
¤Implicitly, you are 
assuming that bad firms 
are more likely to deliver 
negative returns and that 
avoiding them will 
improve returns on your 
portfolio.
¨ESG Inclusionary 
Investing
¤You seek out firms that are 
“good’ firms for your 
portfolio
¤Implicitly, you are 
assuming that firms that 
do good are also good 
investments and that 
adding them will raise the 
returns on your portfolio.
67
Fake ESG? BlackRock’s Carbon Transition ETF
Expenses: 0.03% Expenses: 0.15%
68
A Sales Pitch for ESG Investing
Source: Honey, I shrunk the ESG alpha
69
With a caveat…
ESG scores are correlated with many factors that we know already generated 
excess returns during the 2008-2020 time period. For instance, tech companies 
have historically had higher ESG scores than non-tech companies. Correcting for 
these factor skews in ESG rankings, the alphas become much smaller.
70
Green Bonds: The Shrinking Premium
71
Glimmers of hope?
¨While the overall evidence linking ESG to returns is weak, there are two 
pathways that offer promise:
¤Transition Period Payoff: The first scenario requires an adjustment period, where 
being good increases value, but investors are slow to price in this reality. During the 
adjustment period the highly rated ESG stocks will outperform the low ESG stocks, 
as markets slowly incorporate ESG effects, but that is a one-time adjustment effect. 
¤Limit Downside: To the extent that socially responsible companies are less likely to 
be caught up in controversy and court disaster, the argument is that they will also 
have less downside risk as their counterparts who are less careful. 
¨Investing lesson:  Investors who hope to benefit from ESG cannot do so by 
investing mechanicallyin companies that already identified as good (or 
bad). They have to adopt a more dynamic strategy built around either 
aspects of corporate social responsibility that are not easily measured and 
captured in scores but also affect value, or from getting ahead of the 
market in recognizing aspects of corporate behavior that will hurt or help 
the company in the long term.
72
The Investing Bottom Line
¨If success in active investing is defined as attracting investor 
money, ESG has had a successful run, but if it is defined as 
delivering returns, it is far too early to be doing victory dances 
in the end zone.
¨The consensus view that ESG investing outperformed 
the market is now getting push back, withsome arguing that 
once you control for the sector tilt of ESG funds (they tend to 
be more heavily invested in tech companies), ESG, by itself, 
has provided little or no payoff to those investing on its basis.
¨The sales pitch to investors that ESG is good for investors is at 
cross purposes with the sales pitch to companies that ranking 
high on ESG will reduce their risk and give them lower costs of 
equity and debt.
73
III. ESG Disclosure
¨If ESG does not add to value, at companies, or to returns, 
for investors, there are some who argue that the primary 
benefit of the ESG movement has been increased 
disclosure.
¨Implicit in this argument is the assumption that more 
disclosure will not only induce better behavior on the 
parts of the ”disclosing” firms, but also allow consumers 
and investors to make more informed judgments.
¨That push has already created results with the EU 
leading the way on new disclosure requirements, with 
different interest groups pushing for disclosures on their 
favorite causes.
74
Disclosure and Corporate Behavior
¨While it is possible that disclosure could lead to better 
behavior, there are at least two potential problems.
¤Greenwashing and Game Playing: Once the disclosure requirements 
are set, there will be companies that find ways to play the disclosure 
game to make themselves look better .
¤Confess and then sin again: A more dangerous problem is that 
companies may view disclosure as license for the disclosed bad 
behavior .
¨In short, the notion that requiring companies to disclose 
more will induce better behavior is at odds with the evidence 
on almost every aspect of disclosure that we have seen so far . 
¤Did increased risk disclosures make companies more careful about 
taking risk?
¤Have corporate governance disclosures, which have exploded over the 
last two decades, improved corporate governance at companies?
75
Disclosure as information
¨In theory, disclosures should make us more informed 
as consumers and investors, but here again, there 
are caveats.
¤Legalese: In an age of litigation and regulation, disclosures 
seem to be written by lawyers and for lawyers, and there is 
no reason to believe that ESG disclosures will be any 
different.
¤Information overload: As we have seen with accounting 
disclosures, there is a danger that if ESG disclosures 
become too extensive, they will be ignored even by people 
who claim to care about the disclosed information.
76
Goodness as a shield…
¨To the extent that ESG is on the side of “goodness”, 
any company that wears the ESG mantle acquires 
some degree of protection against questioning, not 
just about ESG actions, but also against legitimate 
business questions.
¨While the evidence is anecdotal, at least for the 
moment, there is some backing for the contention 
that the companies that claim to have the purest of 
motives often have the most to hide.
77
The Runaway Story: ESG as a lubricant
¨With a  runaway business story, you usually have three 
ingredients:
1. Charismatic, likeable Narrator: The narrator of the business story is 
someone that you want to see succeed, either because you like the 
narrator or because he/she will be a good role model.
2. Telling a story about disrupting a much business, where you dislike 
the status quo: The status quo in the business that the story is 
disrupting is dissatisfying (to everyone involved)>
3. With a societal benefit as bonus: And if the story holds, society and 
humanity will benefit.
¨Since you want this story to work out, you stop asking 
questions, because the answers may put the story at risk. 
And since it will benefit society, you are reluctant to be 
churlish enough to ask questions about the basic business 
models.
+
The Story The Checks (?)
+Money
+
The Impossible: The Runaway Story
79
IV . The Payoff for Society
¨There are some who believe that even if ESG makes 
firms less valuable and investors make lower returns, 
it is a net positive for society.
¤It is premised on the notion that society has developed a 
consensus on what comprises goodness.
¤It is also based upon the presumption that companies that 
behave well will create less side costs for society and 
perhaps even contribute to societal good.
¨If you accept this proposition, the trade off will be 
positive for society.
80
The Law of Unintended Consequences…
¨As publicly traded companies that are exposed to ESG 
shaming are forced to divest themselves of their “bad” 
businesses, it is worth remembering that selling or divesting a 
business does not erase it from the face of the earth, but just 
transfers it to a different owner, presumably one is less 
exposed to the ESG shaming.
¨In the fossil fuel business, for instance, the pressure on the 
easily pressured (the big US/European oil companies) has led 
them to cut back on investments in the fossil fuel space.
¤That absence of investment is and will continue to push up the price of 
fossil fuels, making their production more profitable.
¤A subset of the investments are now being made by foreign companies 
(in markets where stockholders has little power) or private equity 
funds.
81
Private Equity in Fossil Fuels
Between 2010 and 2020, private equity funds have 
invested a trillion dollars in fossil fuel investments…
82
Behind the curtain…
83
And not surprisingly.. Barely a dent in 
dependence on fossil fuels
84
While increasing its costs…
¨As ESG pressures amp up on publicly traded fossil fuel 
companies, especially in the US and Europe, to reduce 
exploration and production of fossil fuels, the laws of 
demand and supply have created a predictable 
consequence, which is higher prices for these fossil fuels 
(gas and oil).
¨While ESG advocates may view this as a win, it is worth 
remembering that 80% of global energy still comes from 
fossil fuels, and that the people who are most exposed 
to price increases are not the well off, urban advocates 
of ESG but the people who are least well off (within 
countries and across countries).
85
V.  Wa nt i n g  to  d o  g o o d  fo r  s o c i et y  p re d ate s  
ESG…
¨The notion that until ESG came along, companies (and 
individuals) are businesses operated without a care for 
society would be comical, if the people pushing it were 
not so insistent that it is true.
¨That is nonsense. People who have wanted to do good 
have always been able to do so.
¤In privately owned businesses, owners have always been free to 
share their profits or give away their wealth, to meet whatever 
societal need they felt most strongly about.
¤In publicly traded companies, that responsibility fell to the 
owners of its shares, who again were free to share their 
winnings with society, in any way they though fit.
86
Do you want corporate managers and big fund 
managers to be arbiters of good and bad?
87
Outsourcing your conscience is a salve, not a 
solution!
¨ The ESG movement has given each of us an easy way out of having to make 
choices, by outsourcing these choices to corporate CEOs and investment fund 
managers, asking them to be “good” for us, while not charging us more for their 
products and services (as consumers) and delivering above-average returns (as 
investors). 
¨ Implicit in the ESG push is the presumption that unless companies that are 
explicitly committed to ESG, they cannot contribute to society, but that is not true. 
Consider Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, two men who built extraordinarily 
valuable companies, have not only madegiving pledges, promising to give away 
most of their wealth to their favorite causes in their lifetimes, and living up to that 
promise, but they have also made their shareholders wealthy, andmany of them 
give money back to society. 
¨ As I see it, the difference between this “old” model of business and the proposed 
“new ESG” version is in who does the giving to society, with corporate CEOs and 
management taking over that responsibility from shareholders. I am not willing to 
concede, without challenge, that a corporate CEO knows my value system better 
than I do, as a shareholder, and is better positioned to make judgments on how 
much to give back to society, and to whom, than I am.
Aswath Damodaran
88
An inside perspective…
¨For a perspective more informed and eloquent than mine, I would 
strongly recommendthis piece by Tariq Fancy, whose stint at 
BlackRock, as chief investment officer for sustainable investing, put 
him at the heart of the ESG investing movement. 
¤He argues that trusting companies and investment fund managers to make 
the right judgments for society will fail, because their views (and actions) 
will be driven by profits, for companies, and investment returns, for fund 
managers. 
¤He also believes that governments and regulators have been derelict in 
writing rules and laws, allowing companies to step into the void. 
¨While I don’t share Tariq’s faith that government actions are the 
solution, I share his view that entities whose prime reasons for 
existence are to generate profits for shareholders (companies) or 
returns for investors (investment funds) all ill suited to be 
custodians of public good.
Aswath Damodaran
Cui Bono?
So, why the hype?
90
The ESG Gravy Train (or Circle)
Aswath Damodaran
91
And why it keeps on rolling..
¨Given that shareholders in companies and investors in funds are paying 
for this gravy, you may wonder why corporate CEOs not only go along with 
this charade, but also actively encourage it, and the answer lies in the 
power it gives them to bypass shareholders and to evade accountability. 
¨After all, these are the same CEOs who, in 2019, put forth thefanciful, but 
great sounding, argumentthat it is a company’s responsibility to maximize 
stakeholder wealth, rather than cater to shareholders, which Iargued in a 
postthen that being accountable to everyone effectively meant that CEOs 
were accountable to no one. 
¨In some cases, flaunting goodness has become a way that founders and 
CEOs use to cover business model weaknesses and overreach. It is a point 
that I made in my posts onTheranos, at the time of its implosion in 
October 2015, and onWeWork, during its IPO debacle in 2019, noting 
that Elizabeth Holmes and Adam Neumann used their “noble purpose” 
credentials to cover up fraud and narcissism. 
Aswath Damodaran
Do you want to do good?
93
A Roadmap for being and doing good
1. Start with a personalized measure of goodness, and don’t overreach: The key with moral 
codes is that they are personal, and you have to bring in your value judgments into your 
decisions, rather than leave it to ESG measurement services or to portfolio managers.
2. As a businessperson, be clear on how being good will affect business models and value: If 
you own a business, you are absolutely within your rights to bring your personal views on 
morality into your business decisions, but you should be at peace with the fact that 
staying true to your values may, and probably will, cost you money. If you are making 
decisions at a publicly traded company, as an employee, manager or even CEO, you are 
investing other people’s money and if you choose to make decisions based upon your 
moral code, you have to be open about what your conscience will cost your shareholders.
3. As an investor, understand how much goodness has been priced in: If you are an investor, 
you don’t have to compromise on your values, as long as you realize, at least in the long 
term, you will have to accept lower returns. Goodness requires sacrifice!
4. As a consumer and citizen, make choices that are consistent with your moral code:Your 
consumption decisions (on which products and services you buy) and your citizenship 
decisions (on voting and community participation) have as big, if not greater, an effect. 
Aswath Damodaran
94
Can ESG be rescued?
¨In its current form, and with its existing advocates, the answer is no.
¨If corporate action to advance social good is the end game, here is what 
has to happen:
¤For the (E) environmental mission, the primary drivers have to be laws and 
regulations that affect everyone, not just the companies that voluntarily toe the 
lien. 
¤On the (S) social mission, pick your fights selectively, don’t be holier-than-thou and 
be clear about how much it will cost the people who are actually paying for your 
mission.
¤On the (G) governance, accept that it never really belonged in the concept, and 
that you threw it in there for the same Orwellian reason that East Germany called 
itself the German Democratic Republic and Beijing anoints China as the “People’s 
Republic of China” .
¨If corporate disclosure to allow consumers and investors to make more 
informed judgments is the end game:
¤Less is more: Drowning people in more disclosure will have perverse consequences.
¤One size does not fit all: Disclosures should be tailored to companies.
95
And in conclusion..
¨On a personal note, I have always found that the people that I've known 
who do good, spend very little time talking about being good or lecturing 
other people on goodness. I would extend that perspective to companies 
and investment funds as well, and I reserve my skepticism for those 
companies that spend hundreds of pages of their annual filings telling me 
how much "good" they do.
¨The ESG movement’s biggest disservice is the sense that it has given 
those who are torn between morality and money, that they can have it all. 
Telling companies that being good will always make them more valuable, 
investors that they can add morality constraints to their investments and 
earn higher returns at the same time, and young job seekers that they can 
be paid like bankers, while doing peace corps work, is delusional. 
¨In the long term, as the truth emerges, it will breed cynicism in everyone 
involved, and if you care about the social good, it will do more damage 
than good. The truth is that, most of the time, being good will cost you 
and/or inconvenience you (as businesses, investors or employees), and 
that you choose to be good, in spite of that concern. 
Aswath Damodaran
