Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfUGspr16/Session17.pdf

11
The	Financing	Mix	Question
Aswath Damodaran
11
¨In	deciding	to	raise	financing	for	a	business,	is	there	
an	optimal	mix	of	debt	and	equity?
¤If	yes,	what	is	the	trade	off	that	lets	us	determine	this	
optimal	mix?
nWhat	are	the	benefits	 of	using	debt	instead	of	equity?
nWhat	are	the	costs	of	using	debt	instead	of	equity?
¤If	not,	why	not?
12
The	Illusory	Benefits	of	Debt
¨At	first	sight,	the	benefit	of	debt	seems	obvious.	The	cost	
of	debt	is	lower	than	the	cost	of	equity.	
¨That	benefit	is	an	illusion,	though,	because	debt	is	
cheaper	than	equity	for	a	simple	reason.	The	lender	gets	
both	first	claim	on	the	cash	flows	and	a	contractually	
pre-set	cash	flow.	The	equity	investor	is	last	in	line	and	
has	to	demand	a	higher	rate	of	return	than	the	lender	
does.
¨By	borrowing	money	at	a	lower	rate,	you	are	not	making	
a	business	more	valuable,	but	just	moving	the	risk	
around.
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
Costs	and	Benefits	of	Debt
Aswath Damodaran
13
¨Benefits	of	Debt
¤Ta x 	 B e n e f it s:	The	tax	code	is	tilted	in	favor	of	debt,	with	interest	
payments	 being	tax	deductible	 in	most	parts	of	the	world,	while	
cash	flows	to	equity	 are	not.
¤Adds	discipline	to	management:	When	 managers	are	sloppy	in	
their	project	choices,	borrowing	 money	 may	make	 them	less	so.
¨Costs	of	Debt
¤Bankruptcy	Costs:	Borrowing	money	 will	 increase	your	expected	
probability	 and	cost	of	bankruptcy .
¤Agency	Costs:	What’s	good	for	stockholders	 is	not	always	what’s	
good	for	lenders	 and	that	creates	friction	and	costs.
¤Loss	of	Future	Flexibility:	 Using	up	debt	capacity	today	will	 mean	
that	you	will	not	be	able	to	draw	on	it	in	the	future.
14
Tax	Benefits	of	Debt
Aswath Damodaran
14
¨When	you	borrow	money ,	you	are	allowed	to	deduct	interest	
expenses	from	your	income	to	arrive	at	taxable	income.	This	
reduces	your	taxes.	When	you	use	equity,	you	are	not	
allowed	to	deduct	payments	to	equity	(such	as	dividends)	to	
arrive	at	taxable	income.
¨The	dollar	tax	benefit	from	the	interest	payment	in	any	year	is	
a	function	of	your	tax	rate	and	the	interest	payment:
¤Ta x 	 b en efi t 	 ea c h 	 y ea r	 =	 Ta x 	 Ra t e	 *	 In t eres t 	 P a y m en t
The	caveat	is	that	you	need	to	have	 the	income	to	cover	interest	
payments	to	get	this	tax	benefit.
¨Proposition	1:	Other	things	being	equal,	the	higher	the	
marginal	tax	rate	of		a	business,	the	more	debt	it	will	have	in	
its	capital	structure.
15
The	Effects	of	Taxes
Aswath Damodaran
15
¨You	are	comparing	the	debt	ratios	of	real	estate	
corporations,	which	pay	the	corporate	tax	rate,	and	
real	estate	investment	trusts,	which	are	not	taxed,	
but	are	required	to	pay	95%	of	their	earnings	as	
dividends	to	their	stockholders.	 Which	of	these	two	
groups	would	you	expect	to	have	the	higher	debt	
ratios?
a.The	real	estate	corporations
b.The	real	estate	investment	 trusts
c.Cannot	tell,	without	more	information
