Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ESG.pdf

SOUNDING GOOD OR DOING 
GOOD: A SKEPTICAL LOOK AT ESG
Morality plays in markets!
2
Buzz Words and Magic Bullets!
¨ In my four decades in corporate finance and valuation, I have seen 
many "new and revolutionary" ideas emerge, marketed as the 
solution to all of the problems in business decision making.
¨ Most of the time, these ideas represent either a repackaging of 
existing concepts, with a healthy dose of marketing and selling, 
usually by consultants and bankers, and their magic fades quickly 
once their limitations come to the surface, as they inevitably do. 
¨ The latest entrant in this game is ESG (Environmental, Social and 
Governance), and the sales pitch is wider and deeper . Companies 
that improve their social goodness standing will not only become 
more profitable and valuable over time, we are told, but they will 
also advance society's best interests, thus resolving one of the 
fundamental conflicts of private enterprise, while also enriching 
investors.
3
Why now?
¨ 50 years since Friedman: The first is that it is the fiftieth 
anniversary of one of the most influential opinion pieces in 
media history, where Milton Friedman argued that the focus 
of a company should be profitability, not social good. 
¨ COVID and ESG: The second were multiple news stories about 
how "good" companies have done better during the COVID 
crisis and how much money was flowing into ESG funds.
¨ The Establishment has bought in: The third is a more long-
standing story line, where the establishment seems to have 
bought into ESG consciousness, with business leaders in 
the Conference Board signing on to a "stakeholder interest" 
statement last year and institutional investors shifting more 
money into ESG funds.
4
Measuring ESG: Challenges
¨ It is fuzzy: The first is that much of social impact is 
qualitative and developing a numerical value for that 
impact is difficult to do. 
¨ And entirely subjective: The second is even trickier, 
which is that there is little consensus on what social 
impacts to measure, and the weights to assign to them. 
¨ But it is still being measured: If your counter is that there 
are multiple services now that measure ESG at 
companies, you are right, but the lack of clarity and 
consensus results in the companies being ranked very 
differently by different services.
5
ESG Services disagree…
6
Even on high profile companies…
7
And the differences will persist…
¨ There are some who believe that this reflects a measurement 
process that is still evolving, and that as companies provide more 
disclosure on ESG data and ESG measurement services mature, 
there will be consensus. I don’t believe it, because.if there were 
consensus, it is unlikely that we would not need to convince 
businesses to reflectthat consensus.
¨ Even if you overlook disagreements on ESG as growing pains, there 
is one more component that adds noise to the mix and that is the 
direction of causality:
¤ Do companies perform better because they are socially conscious (good) 
companies, or do companies that are doing well find it easier to do good?
¤ Put simply, if ESG metrics are based upon actions/measures that 
companies that are doing better, either operationally and/or in markets, 
can perform/deliver more easily than companies that are doing badly, 
researchers will find that ESG and performance
8
The ESG Promises: Cake for all, with no calories!
¨ For companies, the promise is that being "good" 
will generate higher profits for the company, at least in 
the long term, with lower risk, and thus make them 
more valuable.
¨ For investors in these companies, the promise is that 
investing in "good" companies will generate higher 
returns than investing in "bad" or middling companies.
¨ For society, the promise is that not only would good 
companies help fight problems directly related to ESG, 
like climate change and low wages, but also counter 
more general problems like income inequality and 
healthcare crises.
9
The ESG Questions
10
I. ESG and Value
The "It Proposition”: For "it" to affect value, "it" has to affect either the 
cash flows or the risk in those cashflows.
11
The Good shall be rewarded
12
The Bad shall be punished
13
The Bad Guys win: Hell on Earth?
14
Value and ESG: The Evidence
¨ A Weak Link to Profitability: There are meta studies (summaries of all other studies) that 
shine summarize hundreds of ESG research papers, and find a small positive link between 
ESG and profitability , but one that is very sensitive to how profits are measured and over 
what period. Breaking down ESG into its component parts, some studies find that 
environment (E) offered the strongest positive link to performance and social (S) the 
weakest, with governance (G) falling in the middle.
¨ A Stronger Link to Funding Costs : Studies of “sin” stocks, i.e., companies involved in 
businesses such as producing alcohol, tobacco, and gaming, find that these stocks are less 
commonly held by institutions and that they face higher costs for funding, from equity and 
debt). The evidence for this is strongest in sectors like tobacco (starting in the 1990s) and 
fossil fuels (especially in the last decade), but these findings come with a troubling catch. 
While these companies face higher costs, and have lower value, investors in these 
companies generate higher returns.
¨ And to Failure/Disaster Risk: “Bad” companies are exposed to disaster risks, where a 
combination of missteps by the company, luck, and a failure to build in enough protective 
controls (because they cost too much) can cause a disaster, either in human or financial 
terms. One study created a value-weighted portfolio of controversial firms that had a history 
of violating ESG rules and reported negative excess returns of 3.5% on this portfolio, even 
after controlling for risk, industry, and company characteristics.
15
II. ESG and Returns
¨ Constrained optimal?To begin with, the notion that adding an ESG 
constraint to investing increases expected returns is counter intuitive. 
After all, a constrained optimum can, at best, match an unconstrained 
one, and most of the time, the constraint will create a cost. 
¨ Truth in Advertising: In one of the few cases where honesty seems to have 
prevailed over platitudes, the TIAA-CREF Social Choice Equity Fund 
explicitly acknowledges this cost and uses it to explain its 
underperformance, stating that “The CREF Social Choice Account returned 
13.88 percent for the year [2017] compared with the 14.34 percent return 
of its composite benchmark … Because of its ESG criteria, the Account did 
not invest in a number of stocks and bonds ... the net effect was that the 
Account underperformed its benchmark.” 
¨ Internal contradiction: In fact, there is an inherent contradiction, at least 
on the surface, between arguing that ESG leads to higher value and stock 
prices, made to CEOs and CFOs of companies, and simultaneously arguing 
that investors in ESG stocks will earn higher (positive excess) returns.
16
Why returns to ESG are tough to read…
Value Effect Market Pricing Investor Returns to ESG
ESG increases value Markets overreact, pushing up 
prices too much
Negative excess returns for 
investors in good ESG firms.
ESG decreases value Markets overreact, pushing down 
prices too much
Positive excess returns for 
investors in good ESG firms.
ESG increases value Markets underreact, with prices 
going up too little.
Positive excess returns for 
investors in good ESG firms.
ESG decreases value Markets underreact, with prices 
going down too little.
Negative excess returns for 
investors in good ESG firms.
ESG increases value Markets react correctly, with 
prices increasing to reflect value.
Zero excess returns for investors 
in good ESG firms.
ESG decreases value Markets underreact, with prices 
going down too little.
Zero excess returns for investors 
in good ESG firms.
17
And the research is all over the place…
¨ Invest in bad companies : A comparison of two Vanguard Index funds, the Vice fund 
(invested in tobacco, gambling, and defense companies) and the FTSE Social Index fund 
(invested in companies screened for good corporate behavior on multiple dimensions) 
and note that a dollar invested in the former in August 2002 would have been worth 
almost 20% more by 2015 than a dollar invested in the latter .
¨ Invest in good companies : At the other end of the spectrum, there are studies that 
seem to indicate that there are positive excess returns to investing in good 
companies. A study showed that stocks in the Anno Domini Index (of socially conscious 
companies) outperformed the market, but that the outperformance was more due to 
factor and industry tilts than to social responsiveness . Some of the strongest links 
between returns and ESG come from the governance portion, which, as we noted 
earlier , is ironic, because the essence of governance, at least as measured in most of 
these studies, is fealty to shareholder rights, which is at odds with the current ESG 
framework that pushes for a stakeholder perspective.
¨ ESG has no effect: Splitting the difference, there are other studies that find little or no 
differences in returns between good and bad companies. In fact, studies that more 
broadly look at factors that have driven stock returns for the last few decades find that 
much of the positive payoff attributed to ESG comes from its correlation with 
momentum and growth .
18
Glimmers of hope?
¨ While the overall evidencelinking ESG to returns is weak, there are two
pathways that offer promise:
¤ Transition Period Payoff: The first scenario requires an adjustment period, where 
being good increases value, but investors are slow to price in this reality. During the 
adjustment period the highly rated ESG stocks will outperform the low ESG stocks, 
as markets slowly incorporate ESG effects, but that is a one -time adjustment effect. 
¤ Limit Downside : To  the extent that socially responsible companies are less likely to 
be caught up in controversy and court disaster, the argument is that they will also 
have less downside risk as their counterparts who are less careful. 
¨ Investing lesson:  Investors who hope to benefit from ESG cannot do so by 
investing mechanicallyin companies that already identified as good (or 
bad), but have to adopt a more dynamic strategy built around either 
aspects of corporate social responsibility that are not easily measured and 
captured in scores, or from getting ahead of the market in recognizing 
aspects of corporate behavior that will hurt or help the company in the 
long term.
19
The COVID effect: ESG Fund Flows
20
The COVID effect: ESG Returns
21
With some pushback
¨ The consensus view that ESG investing outperformed 
the market is now getting push back, with some arguing 
that once you control for the sector tilt of ESG funds 
(they tend to be more heavily invested in tech 
companies), ESG, by itself, provided no added payoff 
during the down period of the crisis (February 
and March 2020) and pushed returns down during the 
recovery phase.
¨ If success in active investing is defined as attracting 
investor money, ESG has had a successful run during 
COVID, but if it is defined as delivering returns, it is far 
too early to be doing victory dances in the end zone.
22
To conclude..
¨ In many circles, ESG is being marketed as not only good for society, but 
good for companies and for investors. In my view, the hype regarding ESG 
has vastly outrun the reality of both what it is and what it can deliver, and 
the buzzwords (sustainability, resilience) are not helpful. 
¨ Much of the ESG literature starts with an almost perfunctory dismissal of 
Milton Friedman’s thesis that companies should focus on delivering 
profits and value to their shareholders, rather than play the role of social 
policy makers. The more that I examine the arguments that advocates for 
ESG make for why companies should expand mission statements, and the 
evidence that they offer for the proposition, the more I am inclined to 
side with Friedman.
¨ The ESG bandwagon may be gathering speed and getting companies and 
investors on board, but when all is said and done, a lot of money will have 
been spent, a few people (consultants, ESG experts, ESG measurers) will 
have benefitted, but companies will not be any more socially responsible 
than they were before ESG entered the business lexicon.
