Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/cfproj.pdf

CORPORATE FINANCE
THE PROJECT
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran1
2
The big picture..
¨Yo u  s h o u l d  f i n d  a  g r o u p  t o  w o r k  w i t h  between 4-8 
people. Y ou can make the judgment of optimal group 
size.
¨If corporate finance is best learned through application 
and in real time, there is no better way to learn the 
subject than to try out everything we do in class on a real 
company in real time…
¨Yo u  s h o u l d  c o n s i d e r  t h i s  p r o j e c t  a  l i v e  l a b  e x p e r i m e n t  
that you will be doing in class for the next 15 weeks. 
While I will try to apply the principles of corporate 
finance to the companies I have chosen, you will be 
applying the same principles to your company.
Aswath Damodaran
2
3
Picking your companies
¨Each person picks a company. The company should be publicly 
traded and have at least one year of trading history and one set of 
annual financial statements. The company can be listed in any 
market.
¨There should be a common theme in each group. The theme can be 
broadly defined. For instance, an entertainment group can include 
movie companies, television broadcasters and syndication 
companies. An automobile group can include auto companies, 
suppliers to auto companies and even an auto dealership. In putting 
together the group of companies, try to pick as diverse a mix of 
companies as possible (small and large, domestic and foreign, 
closely held and widely held….)
¨Avoid the following
¤Financial service firms (banks, insurance companies & investment banks)
¤Money losing companies
¤Companies with large capital arms (GE and the auto companies)
¤Real estate investment trusts
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
I. Corporate Governance Analysis
¨Is this a company where there is a separation between management and 
ownership? If so, how responsive is management to stockholders?
¨What are the other potential conflicts of interest that you see in this firm?
¨How does this firm interact with financial markets? How do markets get 
information on the firm?
¨How does this firm view its social obligations and manage its image in 
society?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/corpgovHP .mp4
Applies material from: Sessions 1-4
Quantitative Qualitative
Spreadsheets: -
Useful Data Sets: CEO pay by firm (Forbes)
Jensen’s Alpha by Industry
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
II. Stockholder Analysis
¨What is the breakdown of stockholders in your firm -
insiders, individuals and institutional?
¨Who is the marginal investor in this stock?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/holders.mp4
Applies material from: Session 5
Quantitative
Spreadsheets: -
Useful Data Sets: Insider Holdings by Industry
Institutional Holdings by IndustryQualitative
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
III. Risk and Return
¨What is the risk profile of your company? How much overall risk is there 
in this firm? Where is this risk coming from  (market, firm, industry or 
currency)? How is the risk profile changing?
¨What return would you have earned investing in this company’s stock? 
Would you have under or out performed the market? How much of the 
performance can be attributed to management?
¨How risky is this company’s equity? What is its cost of equity?
¨How risky is this company’s debt? What is its cost of debt?
¨What is this company’s current cost of capital?
Webcasts on (a) Risk free rate (b) ERP (c) Regression Beta(d) Bottom up Beta& (e) Debt
Applies material from: Sessions 6-11
Quantitative Spreadsheets: Risk&Ret.xls (if needed)
Useful Data Sets: Betas by Industry
Jensen’s Alpha by Industry
Cost of Debt/Capital by Industry
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
IV . Measuring Investment Returns
¨Is there a typical project for this firm? If yes, what does it look like in 
terms of life (long term or short term), investment needs and cash flow 
patterns?
¨How good are the projects that the company has on its books currently?
¨Are the projects in the future likely to look like the projects in the past? 
Why or why not?
Webcast on  identifying typical project&  measuring accounting return.
Applies material from: Sessions 12-16
Quantitative Spreadsheets: capbudg.xls
Useful Data Sets: ROE and Equity EV A by Sector
ROC and EV A by Sector
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
V.  C a p i t a l  S t r u c t u r e  C h o i c e s
¨What are the different kinds or types of financing that this company has 
used to raise funds? Where do they fall in the continuum between debt and 
equity?
¨How large, in qualitative or quantitative terms, are the advantages to this 
company from using debt?
¨How large, in qualitative or quantitative terms, are the disadvantages to 
this company from using debt?
¨From the qualitative trade off, does this firm look like it has too much or 
too little debt? 
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/tradeoffdebt.mp4
Applies material from: Session 17
Quantitative
Spreadsheets: -
Useful Data Sets: Debt Ratios by Industry
Trade-off V ariables by Industry
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
VI. Optimal Capital Structure
¨Based upon the cost of capital approach, what is the optimal debt ratio for 
your firm?
¨Bringing in reasonable constraints into the decision process, what would 
your recommended debt ratio be for this firm?
¨Does your firm have too much or too little debt 
¤relative to the sector?
¤relative to the market?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/optdebt.mp4
Applies material from: Sessions 18-19
Quantitative Spreadsheets: capstru.xls; capstruo.xls
Useful Data Sets: Earnings V ariance by Industry
Market Debt ratio Regression
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
VII. Mechanics of Moving to the Optimal
¨If your firm’s actual debt ratio is different from its “recommended”debt 
ratio, how should they get from the actual to the optimal? In particular,
¤should they do it gradually over time or should they do it right now?
¤should they alter their existing mix (by buying back stock or retiring 
debt) or should they take new projects with debt or equity?
¨What type of financing should this firm use? In particular,
¤should it be short term or long term?
¤what currency should it be in?
¤what special features should the financing have?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/debtdesign.mp4
Applies material from: Sessions 20-21
Quantitative Spreadsheets: macrodur.xls
Useful Data Sets: Firm V alue Sensitivity by Industry
Qualitative 
Aswath Damodaran
10
11
VIII. Dividend Policy
¨How has this company returned cash to its owners? Has it paid dividends 
or bought back stock?
¨How much cash has the firm accumulated over time?
¨Given this firm’s characteristics today, how would you recommend that 
they return cash to stockholders (assuming that they have excess cash)?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/dividends.mp4
Applies material from: Session 22
Quantitative
Spreadsheets: -
Useful Data Sets: Yields/Payout by Industry
Tradeoff Variables by Industry
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
11
12
IX. A Framework for Analyzing Dividends
¨How much cash could this firm have returned to its stockholders over the 
last few years? How much did it actually return?
¨Given this dividend policy and the current cash balance of this firm, would 
you push the firm to change its dividend policy (return more or less cash to 
its owners)?
¨How does this firm’s dividend policy compare to those of its peer group 
and to the rest of the market?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/dividends.mp4
Applies material from: Sessions 23-24
Quantitative Spreadsheets: dividends.xls
Useful Data Sets: Cap Ex Ratios by Industry
Working Capital Ratios By Industry
Debt Ratios by Industry
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
X. V aluation
¨What growth pattern (Stable, 2-stage, 3-stage) would you pick for this 
firm? How long will high growth last?
¨What is your estimate of value of equity in this firm? How does this 
compare to the market value?
¨What is the “key variable”(risk, growth, leverage, profit margins...) 
driving this value?
¨If you were hired to enhance value at this firm, what would be the path you 
would choose?
Webcast: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/Webcasts/valuation.mp4
Applies material from: Session 25
Quantitative Spreadsheets: Choice of valuation spreadsheets
Useful Data Sets: Betas by Industry
Growth Fundamentals by Industry
Cap Ex and Wkg Cap by Industry
Qualitative
Aswath Damodaran
13
14
Project Time Frame
By this date You should be done with
1    (2/3) Find a group
2(2/10) Pick your firm; Get data;
3(2/17) Corporate Governance; Stockholder Analysis
5(3/2) Risk and Return
6(3/9) Measuring Investment Returns
8(3/23) Capital Structure Choices
9(3/30) Optimal Capital Structure
10(4/6) Mechanics of Moving to the Optimal
12 (4/15) Assess Dividend policy
13 (4/22) A Framework for Analyzing Dividend Policy
13 (5/4) Va l u a t i o n
5/6 Project Due by the end of the day (5 pm)
Aswath Damodaran
14
