Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRiskJuly2019.pdf

COUNTRY RISK: THE 2019 MID-
YEAR UPDATE
Aswath Damodaran
2
Globalization’s side effect
¨ A New World Order? Analysts , investors and companies can 
no longer stay focused on just their domestic markets but 
have to understand the risks and opportunities elsewhere in 
the world. 
¨ A Trade Off? When developed market companies first 
embarked on the journey of expanding into emerging market 
growth economies, investors pushed up their stock prices, 
primarily because of the growth potential, but this strategy 
comes with additional risk, not just from changing exchange 
rates but from economic and political forces. 
¨ The other shoe: A sensible assessment of foreign expansion 
has to incorporate the additional risk in theanalysis in the 
form of country risk.
3
If you ignore it, will it go away?
¨ Pass it through: Until the mid-1980s, the conventional 
wisdom was that country risk should not be a factor in 
investment decisions.
¨ A Diversification Argument: As a company expands 
into many markets, it was argued that the risks in the 
different markets would average out, leaving it 
unaffected.
¨ The Correlation Question:  That premise broke down in 
the last few decades, partly as a result of globalization 
on the part of investors and companies.
4
The Sources of Country Risk
¨ The obvious added risk: When companies invest 
outside their domestic markets, the most immediate 
a risk that they are exposed to is exchange rate risk, 
since revenues, profits and cash flows are affected 
by changing exchange rates. 
¨ Is not the big risk: That risk, though, is but a piece of 
the puzzle, a symptom of economic fundamentals 
and affected by political crises. Put simply, there are 
good reasons why some countries are riskier than 
others, and it is not always a consequence of poor 
governance.
5
1. Life Cycle
¨ Corporate life cycle: Companies at different stages in the 
life cycle differ on cash flow generation and growth 
potential. It is also generally true that younger 
companies, deriving more or most of their value from 
future growth, are riskier than more mature companies.
¨ Country life cycle: The same construct can be applied to 
countries, with emerging economies that are growing 
rapidly being more exposure to global shocks than 
mature countries. 
¨ Global Shocks: It should come as no surprise, therefore, 
that in almost every market crisis over the last decade, 
emerging markets have paid a much large price in terms 
of lost economic growth and lower market value than 
developed markets.
6
2. Political Risk
¨ Politics can affect economic and market risk, not just 
in emerging markets, but also in developed ones. 
¨ While there are many forms of political risk, ranging 
from abrupt changes in fiscal and monetary policy to 
regime change, there are at least two measurable 
manifestations of this risk:
¤ Corruption Risk: Generally countries with more unstable 
political environments seem to lend themselves more to 
corruption and bribery.
¤ Violence Risk: Again generally, more political instability 
seems to lead to more violence within countries.
7
2a. Corruption across Countries
8
2b. Exposure to Violence
9
3. Legal Risk
10
4. Structure of Economy
11
Measuring Country Risk
¨ There are broad measures of country risk available 
that take the form of country risk scores. 
¤ The pluses of these measures is that many of them are 
comprehensive and cover all aspectsof country risk.
¤ The minus is that they do not follow the same scalar and are 
not easily convertible into investment decision criteria.
¨ There are financial market measures of country risk, 
which are more easily incorporated into investment 
decisions but they tend to focus primarily on default 
risk:
¤ Sovereign Ratings, assigned by “independent” ratings 
agencies, convertible to default spreads
¤ Sovereign credit default swaps, measuring the cost of buying 
insurance against sovereign default in the market.
12
1. Country Risk Scores
13
2a. Sovereign Ratings
14
2b. Sovereign CDS Spreads
15
Equity Risk Premiums
16
Global ERP
17
From Country To Company…
¨ The risk exposure of a company does not come from 
where it is incorporated but from where it does 
business. Thus, Coca Cola and Royal Dutch may be 
US and UK-listed companies respectively, but their 
business models expose them to risk around the 
world.
¨ When multinationals try to estimate hurdle rates for 
projects, it should reflect not just the currency you 
do the analysis in but also the country in which the 
project will be located.
18
Conclusion
¨ A gray line? There was a time a few decades ago when 
the line between developed and emerging markets was a 
clear one. The last decade has seen a blurring of lines, 
as some “developed markets” mimic emerging market 
behavior and some emerging markets mature. 
¨ No convergency (yet): There are some (companies and 
investors) who have decided that this convergence is a 
reason to ignore country risk, but I think that they do so 
at their own peril. 
¨ Caveat emptor: Notwithstanding globalization, we face 
wide variations in risk across the world, and prudence 
and good sense demand that we incorporate these 
differences into our decisions.
