Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/AIScenarios.pdf

Possible? Plausible? Probable?
2
§For much of the two years, the AI story has been told by its 
advocates and salespeople, and the companies in the AI 
ecosystem have benefited. 
§Not surprisingly, given that its narrators benefit from its growth, that 
story has emphasized the positive, with dazzling AI use cases and 
extrapolation of productively gains. 
§In the last few months, we have seen cracks emerge in the story, 
with investors wondering when, and in what form, the monstrously 
large investments in AI architecture will pay off, and how if they pay 
off, the businesses that they disrupt will fare. 
§That disquiet has played out as negative market reactions to 
new AI investments at Meta and Amazon, a markdown in 
software company market capitalizations and last week, in a sell 
off on Monday (February 23rd) in response, at least partially, to 
an AI scenario assessment from Citrini Research, a 
publisher of macro and stock research.
3
§TheCitrini AI assessmentcame out on February 22, 2026, and it 
starts with a preface stating that it is presenting a scenario, not a 
prediction. 
§The report lays out a story for AI that unfolds with a dark end game 
for the economy by June 30, 2028, where unemployment has risen 
above 10% and the market has sold off, down almost 40% from its highs. 
§There have been other AI doomsayers, but many of those doomsday 
scenarios are built around the storyline that AI does not live up to its 
promise, and the pain those scenarios comes from having invested 
trillions of dollars in building its architecture. 
§In contrast, the Citrini AIstory is built on the expectation that not only 
does AI work well at doing tasks currently performed by white 
collar professionals, across a range of firms, but its adoption 
happens very quickly . 
§The pain in the Citrini story comes from that disruption creating 
substantial job losses, and especially so among higher-earning 
workers, and their loss of income driving them to cut back on 
consumption. The ripple effects play out across businesses, with 
default risks and spreads rising, private credit collapsing and the 
market and economy pricing in the pain.
4
§I do think that there are major flaws in the steps leading to the 
economic implosion in the Citrini assessment, but if we look at 
the flaws, credit should be given where it is due. 
§I have always been troubled by how much we have worshiped at 
the altar of disruption in this century, putting the founders of 
disruptors on pedestals and preaching its virtue. 
§In keeping with Joseph Schumpeter's description of capitalism as 
built around creative destruction, I do believe that a vibrant and 
dynamic economy needs a shake-up and challenging of the 
status quo, but disruption comes with costs, not just to the 
businesses that are disrupted, but also to the people who work in 
them. 
§The reason that many AI advocates took issue with the report was 
precisely because it bought into their sales pitch of how AI bots 
can not only do what lawyers, bankers, software engineers and 
consultants do, but do them better, and then asked the 
question of "what then?.
5
§While I was not surprised to see Goldman Sachs,Moody'sandJP 
Morganjump in with their AI scenarios, with more benign 
outcomes, where the job and income effects from AI are modest 
and temporary, I was surprised to see Citadel wade into the 
argument, with adirect rebuttal to Citrini,
§In their scenario, which sees a much more positive end game from 
AI disruption, is built around three pillars. 
§The first is current data on jobs and layoffs in the businesses most 
directly targeted by AI, such as software, where they note that while jobs 
have been shed, the job losses have been modest, and AI adoption 
trends, where you don’t see breakouts consistent with what you would 
need for the speedy disruption predicted by Citrini. 
§The second is history, where they look at disruptions in the past (PCs, 
the internet) and note that none of them have created the job losses or 
economic collapses predicted in the doomsday scenario. 
§The third is grounded in macroeconomics, where they point to the 
inconsistency of a large positive productive shock, from AI’s success, 
playing out as large negative shock to the economy in which it happens.
6
§The problem with all these AI scenarios is that they are rooted in 
the weakest of responses to uncertainty , which is to pick a 
scenario and describe it in detail, without establishing, at least in 
qualitative terms, how likely the scenario is, in the first place. 
§It is entirely possible that what Citrini was presenting was a 
"worst-case" scenario(I read through the report multiple times 
and could not get a sense of if this was so, and the subsequent 
responses from Citrini have only muddied the waters), a "low 
likelihood" scenario or the "likely scenario" of how AI will unfold. 
§If it is a likely scenario, and you buy into the pitch, the investment and 
personal consequences will be dramatic, since it is entirely possible 
that, if you are a white-collar worker, you will have lost your job by June 
2028, and your savings, if invested in stocks, would have taken a 
beating. 
§If it is a "low likelihood" scenario, and you are exposed, because of 
your job, age and portfolio composition, you should consider buying 
protection, but if it is a worst-case scenario, it is almost entirely 
useless, except to get people’s attention.
7
§For much of its history, financial analysis has been built around 
point estimates, where you identify key drivers, estimate the 
effects on your bottom line (earnings, cash flows) and make your 
best judgments. 
§I have always wondered why finance and economics have been so 
slow in adopting and using probabilistic approaches, where 
point estimates are replaced by distributions, and a single 
judgment by a distribution. 
§One reason, at least early on, is that economists and financial analysts 
often did not have rich enough data or powerful enough tools to 
adopt decision trees, simulations or scenario analysis in making their 
macroeconomic and investment judgments, but that no longer is true. 
§Another reason may be that many in this group are uncomfortable 
with statistical distributionsor probability estimates and stay away 
from using them. 
§The third reason, at least for a subset of analysts, is a concern that being 
open about estimates and the errors in those estimates, which is visible 
to all in probabilistic approaches, will be viewed as a sign of 
weakness or lack of convictionon the part of those that use their 
estimates.
8
§In its most sloppy form, and one that has been around for 
decades, scenario analysis has taken the form of best case -
base case -worst case scenarios, an almost useless exercise, 
since there are almost no risky investments that are going to 
pass muster under the worst case scenario, no matter how good 
they are, or are going to fail under the best case scenario, no 
matter how bad they are. 
§A scenario analysis, done right, should look at scenarios that 
cover all possible outcomes,and for completion, need 
probabilities attached to these scenarios, which can then be 
used by a decision maker to estimate expected values. 
§That will be almost impossible to do if you are trying to work 
out future pathways to AI, since it is so early in the process and 
so little is known about outcomes.
9
10
§Will AI displace workers in businesses, or will it provide them 
with more powerful tools?
If you listen to some of AI’s strongest advocates, such as Anthropic’ s
Dario Amodei, AI will have the capacity to displace and replace 
workers across multiple businesses, as it develops strengths that 
go beyond the purely mechanical. (Citrini assumes broad disruption 
whereas Citadel sees more narrow disruption)
§How quickly will the AI disruption happen?
Here again, there is disagreement, with some AI optimists believing 
that its disruption of regular businesses is imminent, whether 
displacing workers or in giving them tools. Others believe that AI 
adoption willtake time, partly because the tools need work and partly 
because businesses and workers are slow to adapt to change.(Citrini 
sees speedy disruption whereas Citadel sees slower disruption)
11
12
§With AI, the positive effects will take the form ofhigher 
productivity, as it presumably either allows people to do their 
jobs more efficiently (with the tools) or actually replaces
people and does their jobs instead. 
§Relating back to the different pathways that AI disruption can 
take, both in form and in form and speed, I would hypothesize 
that these disruption benefits will be a function of how the 
disruption plays out.
§Proposition 1: The disruption benefits from AI disruption will be 
greater from people displacement than from tools.
§Proposition 2: The productivity effects from AI disruption will 
decrease, at least in econom ic value ter m s, the longer it takes for the 
AI disruption to unfold.
13
§The negative effects of AI, in purely economic terms, will come 
from the immediatedisplacement of people,if AI replaces 
labor, or from thedecrease in employees neededto get tasks 
done, if AI makes existing employees more efficient. Here 
again, I would hypothesize that these disruption costs will 
be function of how the disruption plays out.
§Proposition 3: The disruption costs from AI disruption will be greater 
from people displacement than from tools, as those laid off lose 
income and spending power.
§Proposition 4: The productivity costs from AI disruption will 
decrease, at least in economic value terms, the longer it takes for 
the AI disruption to unfold, since time will allow new entrants into 
labor markets to adjust to a disrupted businessworld.
14
15
My justification for slower:
1.AI products still have glitches to work through and are still not 
ready for autonomy.
2.History, where no disruption has ever unfolded without delays and 
drawbacks.
3.Human nature, where reluctance to change is deep, especially in 
older workers and more established businesses.
My justification for substantial, but not overwhelming
1.AI is not ChatGPT on steroids
2.Businesses have made more of their work rule-driven and devoid 
of human ingenuity.
More likely
§Yo u n g companies, with 
younger employees (inertia 
weakest)
§High gross margins and 
profitability
§Mechanical and rule-based 
products and services.
§No or weak system 
protection from regulators, 
legal system etc.
Less Likely
§Older companies, with 
aging workforces (inertia 
strongest)
§Lower gross margins and 
buffer
§People-based products and 
services.
§Strong system dependence 
and protection from rule-
writers and regulators.
17
§At first sight, almost most of the AI scenarios yield net benefits, but it is possible 
that the net benefits accrue to a few businesses (andindividuals), leaving the rest 
(businesses and individuals) with net costs.
1. The interests of the AI companies and the rest the economy/market will 
diverge on AI disruption, with the former benefiting if the disruption is across 
many businesses and happens quickly, and the latter benefiting from a slower 
disruption restricted to a few businesses.
2. The last few major disruptions have all tilted the playing field in many 
businesses towards larger companies, making businesses more winner-take-
all. It is likely that the AI disruption will play out in similar ways, with the winners 
winning big, and lots of companies losing out.
3. At the individual level, it is not just plausible, but also likely, that a strong AI 
disruption will make wealth and income inequality worse, with founders of AI 
businesses joining the ranks of the deca-billionaires and centi-billionaires.
§A job is not just a source of income for many , but also a source of self esteem 
and worth. When software engineers who pride themselves on their coding skills, 
bankers who have spent decades becoming excel ninjas, and consultants who have 
found inventive ways of packaging cookbook solutions as new and inventive, all find 
that AI can do what they can do almost effortlessly, the psychic damage is 
significant.
18
§Just about two years ago, I wrote about an AI entity called the Damodaran 
Bot, that was being developed by Vasant Dhar, my colleague at NYU. I have 
watched that bot develop, with quirks and occasionalhiccups, to a point where 
it can replicate much of my content almost effortlessly. At the time, though, I did 
write about what I could do to keep the moat at bay, including thefollowing:
1. Generalist vs Specialists: I am a dabbler, an expert in nothing and interested in lots of 
different things, and I do think that gives me an advantage over a bot that is trained to 
focus on a topic and drill down.
2. Left and Right Brain: If the legend of the right and left brains holds, where the left 
brain controls logic and numbers and the right brain drives your imagination, a bot 
will have a tougher time replicating what you do. That said, I have seen the 
Damodaran Bot get much better at story telling in the two years that I have watched it 
grow, and I need to up my game.
3. Reasoning muscle: As we move into a time, where the answer to every question 
is online, on Google Search and ChatGPT, we are losing the need to exercise those 
reasoning muscles, and exposing ourselves to our bots.
4. An idle mind:  I don't have much real work to do, I also have plenty of vacant time, with 
nothing to do. I use that time to daydream and ponder about questions on , including 
why someone would pay billions of dollars for a sports franchise, how to deal with the 
risk of lava from a volcano hitting a spa and ruining its valuation and how Netflix has 
broken the entertainment business. None of these posts include Nobel prize-worthy 
insights, but my guess is that the Damodaran bot would have trouble with my 
wandering mind.
19
§Yo u  s h o u l d  be  a c t i n g  a s  i f  a  bo t  wi t h  yo u r  n a me  i s  l o o k i n g  ove r  
your shoulder and trying to learn what you do, and think about 
what you can do to keep that bot at bay.
