Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 3: 
PLAYING THE NUMBERS GAME!
Aswath Damodaran
2
An Annual Rite
¨ Every year, for the last three decades, I have spent 
the first week of the year, looking at numbers. 
¨ Specifically, as the calendar year ends, I download 
raw data on individual companies and try to 
decipher trends and patterns in the data. 
¨ Over the years, my data has become richer, but 
ironically, I have become more wary about trusting 
data.
3
The Sample
¨ All publicly traded firms with a market price: My 
sample includes all publicly traded firms with a 
market capitalization greater than zero and all of the 
information that I get from my data providers is in 
the public domain. 
¨ No sampling bias: If you are wondering why I don't 
screen out firms that have small market 
capitalizations or are in markets where information 
disclosure is spotty, it is because any sampling 
choices that I make to restrict my sample will create 
biases that may skew the statistics.
4
Geographies…
Geographical 
Grouping Includes Rationale
Australia, NZ and 
Canada
Australia, New Zealand 
and Canada Share a reliance on natural resources.
Developed Europe EU, UK, Switzerland and 
Scandinavia
Includes riskier EU countries, but 
reflects European company pricing and 
choices.
Emerging Markets
Asia other than Japan, 
Africa, Middle East, Latin 
America, Eastern Europe & 
Russia
A really mixed bag of countries from 
many regions with different 
characteristics, with variations in added 
risk.
Japan
Japanese companies
Different enough from the rest of the 
world that it still deserves its own 
grouping.
United States US companies 
Accounts for the biggest chunk of world 
market capitalization.
5
And Breakdown..
6
Industry Groupings
¨ To classif y companies into industrial groups, I start with the 
industry listings provided by my raw data providers but add my 
own twist to create industry groupings. In making my 
classifications, I will err on the side of broader classifications, rather 
than narrower one, for two reasons:
¤ Law of large numbers : The power of averaging gets stronger, as sample 
sizes increase, and using broader groupings results in larger samples. To 
illustrate, I have 1148 apparel firms in my global sample, thus allowing for 
enough firms in every sub grouping.
¤ Better measures : In both valuation and corporate finance, there is an 
argument to be made that the numbers we obtain for broader groups is a 
better estimate of where companies will converge than focusing on 
smaller groups.
¨ That said, there will be times where the broad industry 
classifications that I use will frustrate you, especially on pricing 
metrics, like PE ratios and EV to EBITDA multiples.
7
The Largest Industries
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Data: Timing
¨ I download data from both accounting statements and 
financial markets and in doing so, I do run into a mild 
timing issue. 
¤ The accounting data that I have for most firms on January 1, 
2019, is as of the third quarter of 2018 (ending September 30, 
2018) and I use the trailing 12-month data as of the most recent 
financial filing. For companies in countries with semi-annual 
filings, the data will be even mow dated, but there is little that 
can be done about that. 
¤ For market data, I use the market prices and rates, as of 
December 31, 2018. 
¨ While you may think of that as a timing inconsistency, I 
do not, since that is most updated information an 
investor would have had on January 1, 2019.
9
Data: Adjusting the Data
¨ Leases: I convert lease commitments to debt, which alters 
operating income and debt numbers, a modification that I 
have made for more than 20 years. I am pleased to note that 
accounting will finally come to its senses and try to do the 
same starting in 2019 and you should be able to get a preview 
of how margins, debt ratios and returns on capital will change 
from my computations. 
¨ R&D: The second adjustment is to convert R&D expenses 
from an operating expense (which it clearly is not) to a capital 
expense, which it clearly is, again affecting operating income 
and invested capital.
¨ Comparison: For purposes of transparency, I report both the 
adjusted and the unadjusted numbers for the statistics that 
are affected by it.
10
Data: Statistics
11
Data: Use
1. Don't assume that mean reversion is automatic: While mean 
reversion is a strong force, it is not immutable, and when you 
have structural changes in the economy and sectors, it will break 
down.
2. Trust, but verify: While I would like to believe that my 
computations of widely used ratios (from accounting ratios like 
return on equity and ROIC to pricing metrics like EV to EBITDA) 
are correct, they represent my views and may differ from yours. It 
is for this reason that I provide a full listing ofhow I compute my 
numbers at this link. 
3. The data will age, and some more quickly than others, over the 
course of the year: I have neither the interest, nor the inclination, 
to be a full-fledged data service. The data will be updated a year 
on January 5, 2020. The only numbers that I plan to update mid 
year are the country risk premiums.
