Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate11.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE XI: AN 
ODE TO FLEXIBILITY.. WITH A 
CAUTION..
Agility and Flexibility…
2
The Lead In
¨ As the virus makes a comeback, particularly in the United 
States, it is not surprising that markets reflect the uncertainty 
that we all feel about how exactly the rest of the year will 
play out in both our personal and business lives. 
¨ In this post, I will begin with my standard update on how the 
last two weeks have played out by updating my numbers on 
markets overall, and within the equity market, across regions, 
sectors and industries. 
¨ I will highlight flexibility in investing, operating, financing and 
cash return policies as the one quality that seems to be 
separating the winners from the losers in these last few 
months, and argue that this represents an acceleration of a 
longer term shift towards more nimble and adaptable 
business models.
3
Market Action: Equities
4
Market Action: Treasuries
5
The Price of Risk: Corporate Bonds
6
The Price of Risk: Equities
7
Market Action: Commodity Prices
8
Market Action: Gold and Bitcoin
9
Equities: By Region
10
Equities: By Sector
11
Equities: Worst hit and Best Industries
Adapt, evolve and improvise…
Flexibility
13
A common tie…
¨ Debt matters: In my fourth post from March 23, I noted that heavily indebted 
companies have under performed companies with lighter debt loads.
¨ Growth outperformed value : In my eighth post from May 13, I highlighted the fact 
that growth stocks are outperforming value stocks. 
¨ Young companies have done better than older companies : In my last post from 
June 19, I used the concept of a corporate life cycle, and noted that younger 
companies seems to be doing much better than older companies. 
¨ Others have noted that capital intensive businesses seem to have been worse 
affected during this crisis than capital -light businesses, and early in the crisis, 
buybacks were highlighted as a reason why some companies and sectors were 
doing worse than others. 
¨ In fact, the new buzzword that business consultants are pushing is "resilience" , 
arguing that the resilient companies have weathered this crisis better than the 
rest of the market. 
¨ While there is some truth in all of these contentions, I would argue that if there is 
one quality that ties together all of these seemingly disparate factors, it 
is flexibility, and this crisis has reaffirmed the value of flexibility.
14
a. Investment Flexibility
15
The COVID effect
16
b. Operating Flexibility
17
The COVID effect
18
c. Financing Flexibility
19
The COVID effect
20
d. Cash Return Flexibility
21
The COVID effect
22
Dividends vs Buybacks
23
The Flexibility Trade off
¨ If the last decade has been a disruptive one, that disruption has 
been largely driven by companies that have not only built flexible 
structures but use that flexibility to gain competitive advantages 
over their status quo competitors. 
¨ As companies get pushed to increase flexibility, that quest comes 
with costs, and those trade offs have to be acknowledged:
¤ Compressed Corporate Life Cycle : The same forces that allow these 
companies to scale up faster also create business models which are more 
difficult to defend against new competitors, leading to shorter periods of 
maturity and more speedy decline, with important consequences .
¤ Losses on the upside : Having large fixed costs and/or high net debt will 
result in bigger losses when times are bad, but it will also create larger 
profits on the upside.
¤ Social costs: As new business models are built around flexibility, some of 
the actions that increase flexibility come with costs that are borne by 
society, rather than the company.
