Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate14.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE XIV: A 
WRAP , PREMATURE OR NOT!
It ain’t over till its over!
2
The lead in..
¨ Over the last eight months, I have written a series of posts on the 
market and how it has adapted and adjusted to COVID. 
¤ The very first of these posts, on February 26, 2020, was about two weeks 
into the meltdown and is indicative of how little we knew about the virus 
then, and what effects it would have on the market. 
¤ More than seven months later , there is still much that we still do not know 
about the virus, as it continues to wreak havoc on global economies and 
businesses. 
¤ In this post, I intend to wrap up this series with a final post, reviewing how 
value has been reallocated across companies during the months, and 
providing an updated valuation of the S&P 500. 
¨ Premature? Given that much of Europe is going into lockdown 
today, and there is no vaccine in sight, this may seem premature, 
but I have a feeling that there will be other uncertainties that will 
vie for market attention over the coming weeks, especially as the 
US election results play out in legal and legislative arenas.
3
A Three-Act Play? US Indices
4
Global Indices
5
Market Overview: Treasuries
6
Market Overview: Corporate Spreads
7
Market Overview: Commodities
8
Market Overview: Gold and Bitcoin
9
Equities: A Value Transfer
¨ As markets have recovered much or all of the drop in the 
first five weeks of the crisis, it is a mistake to believe that 
it is a return to the status quo, since along the way, 
markets have reallocated value making some companies 
more valuable and others less.
¨ Some regions and sectors have gained, while others have 
lost. Some types of companies have seen their market 
caps rise during this crisis, and others have seen them 
drop.
¨ Understanding which groups have benefited and which 
have lost is not just useful for setting the historical 
record straight, but also in extracting lessons for 
companies and investors for the future.
10
Global Equities: By Region
11
Global Equities: By Sector
12
Global Equities: Industry Winners & Losers
13
Value and Growth
14
Corporate Life Cycle
15
The FANGAM Effect
16
The Value Transfer: Risk On vs Risk Off
17
The Resilience of Risk Capital
18
And how it plays out in equity risk premiums
19
The Market and the Economy
20
Updating the Story
21
Valuing the S&P 500 on 11/1/20
22
Facing up to Uncertainty
23
Crisis as Crucible: Lessons learned
¨ Respect markets, even if you disagree with them: Markets are not all 
knowing and they are definitely not efficient, but they are extraordinary 
instruments for conveying the consensus view of the future. While you 
and I may disagree with the market view, and markets can be wrong, it 
behooves us all to at least try and understand the message that it 
delivers.
¨ Time to move on: For many managers and investors, the COVID crisis was 
a reminder, sometimes in painful terms, that we are now well into the 
21st century and continuing to use tools, techniques and metrics that 
were developed and tested on 20th century data is a recipe for disaster.
¨ Flexibility is good: If you look across what companies that have done well 
during this crisis share in common, it is flexibility, with companies that can 
adapt quickly to new circumstances improving their odds of winning. In 
the same vein, it seems self defeating for companies to borrow too much 
or lock themselves into paying large dividends, since both reduce their 
capacity to respond quickly to changed circumstances.
