Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/PolMkts.pdf

THE WISDOM AND MADNESS OF 
CROWDS: POLITICAL MARKETS AS 
A CASE STUDY
Beyond polling…
2
Not a political post…
¨The focus of this blog has always been on markets and companies, 
more micro than macro, and I am sure that you will find my 
spouting off about my political views off-putting, much as I do, 
when celebrities and sports stars tell me their voting plans. 
¨This post, though, does have a political angle, with a market twist. 
During the just-concluded presidential election, we saw election 
markets (about almost every aspect of the election) not only open 
up but insert themselves into the political discourse. 
¨I would like to use this post to expand the discussion to cover what 
markets do well, what they do badly and the consequences, i.e., 
revisit an age-old divide between those who believe in the wisdom 
of crowds and and those that point to their madness.
Aswath Damodaran
2
3
Election Forecasts: History
¨ As in the movie “Conclave” , I am sure that the actual conclaves that have characterized 
papal succession for centuries have used informal polling as a way of forecasting who 
will win election for centuries. 
¨ In fact, going back in time to the very first democracies inGreekandRomantimes, 
where notwithstanding the restrictions on who could vote, there were attempts to 
assess election winners and losers, ahead of the event.
¨ The first reported example of formal polling occurred ahead of the 1824 presidential 
election, when the Raleigh Star and North Carolina Gazette polled 504 votes to 
determine that Andrew Jackson would beat John Quincy Adams. 
¤ Starting in 1916, The Literary Digest started a political survey, asking its readers, and after correctly 
predicting the next four elections, failed badly in 1936 (predicting that Alf Landon would beat FDR in the 
election that year .
¤ In 1948, polling had one of its early dark moments, when predictions that Thomas Dewey would beat Harry 
Truman were upended onElection Day, leading to one of the most famous headlines of all time (in the 
Chicago Tribune). 
¨ In the decades after, polling did learn valuable lessons about sampling bias and with an 
assist from technological advancements, and the number of pollsters has proliferated.
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Poll Aggregators
5
Poll Judgments
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
Polymarket: Political Market
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Kalshi: An alternative…
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Poly vs Kalshi
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
Vindication?
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨At least on this election, the answer is yes, since unlike most of the 
pollster and poll aggregators, the political markets led into Election 
Day, expecting a decisive victory for Trump in the electoral college. 
¨However, political markets did notexpect Trump to win the popular 
vote, which he did, and that can be taken as evidence that markets 
are surprised sometimes, as well. 
¨In the weeks leading into the election, there were two dimensions 
on which political markets varied from the polls and aggregators.
¤On the plus side, the political markets were more dynamic, reflecting in 
real time, responses to events like the debates, interviews and 
endorsements; Polymarket'sodds of a Trump win dropped by almost 10% 
after the debate. 
¤On the minus side, political markets were volatile, with swings driven 
sometimes by large trades; the Wall Street Journal highlight one trader 
who put almost $30 million into the market on the Trump win, pushing up 
the price.
10
The Wisdom of Crowds
¨In an earlier part of this post, I talked about going to the movies, 
and it is indicative of the times we live in that my movie choice was 
made, not by reading movie reviews on the newspaper, but 
bymovie ratings on Rotten Tomatoes
¨. Once the movie was done, the restaurant choice I made was 
determined by Yelp reviews, and without boring you further, you 
can see this pattern unfold as you think about how you choose the 
products you buy on Amazon or even the services (plumbing, 
electrical, landscaping) that you go with, as a consumer . 
¨On a less personal and larger scale, I have described the block 
chains that underlie Bitcoin transactions as crowd sourcing the 
checking process (performed by fiats and banks, with conventional 
currency), and you can argue that trusting social media to deliver 
you information is essentially crowd-sourcing your news.
11
Markets: Crowds, with restricted entry…
¨With all of these examples, you can see one of the dangers of 
crowd judgments, and that is that in all the crowds described 
above (Rotten Tomatoes, Yelp, Amazon product reviews and 
social media), there is no cost to entry, or to offer an opinion, 
and that can dilute the power of the judgments. 
¨With markets, we introduce an entry fee to those who want 
to join the crowd in the form of price, and demand more to 
amplify those views.In the words of Nassim Taleb, 
opinionated people with no skin in the game can make 
outlandish predictions, often with no accountability. 
¨No matter what you think about the experience or 
motivations of traders on a market, they have to put money 
behind their views, and more money, if they want the views 
to have more weight.
12
Three reasons why markets are wise…
Aswath Damodaran
12
1. Information aggregation: One of the magical aspects of well-functioning 
markets is how pieces of information possessed by individual traders 
about whatever is being traded get aggregated, delivering a composite 
price that is effectively a reflection of all of the information.
2. Real time adjustments to news: While experts (rightfully) take their time 
to absorb new information and reflect that information in their 
assessments, markets do not have the luxury of waiting. Consequently, 
markets react in real time, often in the moment, to events as they unfold. 
That allows market prices to always be more updated than any expert 
forecast or assessment.
3. Law of large numbers: It is true that individual traders in a markets can 
not only mistakes, often big ones, in their assessments of value, but can 
sometimes also let their preconceptions and biases drive their trading. To 
the extent that the mistakes can lie on both sides, they will average out, 
allowing the "right' price to emerge from several wrong judgments.
13
Fox versus Hedgehog!
Aswath Damodaran
13
¨Phil Tetlock, co-author of thebook on super 
forecasting, chronicles the dismal record of expert 
forecasts, and argues that the best forecasts come 
from foxes (knows many things, but not in depth) 
and not hedgehogs (with deep expertise in the 
discipline).
¨In short, his argument is that the deep knowledge 
that experts have in their subject matter skews their 
thinking and traps them into forecasts that do not 
reflect reality.
14
The Madness of Crowds
Aswath Damodaran
14
¨It is worth remembering that well before we had any of these resources 
existed , we had financial markets, and in those markets, prices are crowd 
judgments on the value of the traded instruments. 
¨Our experience in financial markets is that while markets allow for 
information aggregation and consensus judgments that are almost 
magical in their promptness and power, they are also capable of making 
mistakes, sometimes monumental ones.
¨ One of my favorite books remainsExtraordinary Popular Delusions and 
the Madness of Markets, published in 1841, and chronicling how market 
mistakes form and grow, using the South Sea Bubble and the Tulip Bulb 
Craze as illustrative examples. 
¨To those who believe that markets have somehow evolved since then to 
avoid these mistakes, behavioral finance provides the counter, which is 
that markets reflect behavioral quirks that are part of the human make-
up, and thus always be part of markets.
15
And what creates the madness…
Aswath Damodaran
15
1. Noise drowns out information: While noise exists in even the best-functioning markets, 
there is enough information in those markets to offset the noise effect, and bring prices back 
into sync with value. However, if noise is the dominant force in a market, it can drown out 
information, causing prices to delink from information.
2. Momentum versus Fundamentals: On a related note, it is worth remembering that the 
strongest force in markets is momentum, where price movements in a period are driven 
more by price movements in past periods, than by fundamentals. 
3. Participant bias: While markets require skin in the game from traders, that requires money, 
and that biases markets against people with little or no money.
4. Market Manipulation: The history of financial markets also includes clear cases where 
markets have been manipulated, to deliver profits to the manipulators. That problem 
becomes worse in markets with limited liquidity, where big trades can move prices, and 
where market insiders have access to data that outsiders do not.
5. Feedback loop: There are times where market prices can affect the fundamentals, and 
through them, the value of what is being traded. With the political markets, this feedback 
loop manifested itself in my social media feeds, where I often saw the Polymarketor Kashi 
charts being used by candidates to convince potential voters that they were winning (to get 
them to jump on the bandwagon) or losing (to get people to give them money).
16
To “crowd” or “not to crowd”
¨Iamconvincedthatinmakingourchoicesasconsumersandcitizens,we
willbefacingthechoicebetweenmarket-basedassessmentsandexpert
assessmentonmoreandmoredimension.Aswefacethesechoices,
therewillbetwocampsaboutwhethermarketpricesshouldbetrusted.
One,rootedinthewisdomofmarkets,willpushustoacceptmorecrowd-
sourcingandcrowd-judgments,andtheother,buildingonmarket
madness,willpointtoallthethingsthatmarketscangetwrong.
¨ WhileIdobelievethat,inbalance,thewisdomwilloffsetthemadnessin
mostmarkets,thereareplaceswhereIwillstaywary,asauserofmarket
prices.Ifyouareplanningtotradeonthesemarkets
¨Thereisanotheruseforthesepoliticalmarketsecuritiesthatyoumay
wanttoconsider.Totheextentthatyoufeelemotionallyinvestedinone
candidatewinning,andyoudon'thavemuchfaithinyourprobability
assessments,youmaywanttoconsiderbuyingsharesintheother
candidate.
