Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/SpotifyIPO.pdf

STREAM ON: VALUING SPOTIFY , 
FOR ITS IPO
Aswath Damodaran
2
Unicorns going public?
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
¨ We have seen two high profile unicorns file for initial 
public offerings. 
¤ The first out of the gate was Dropbox, a storage solution 
for a world where gigabyte files are the rule rather than 
the exception, with a filing on February 23.
¤ Following close after, on February 28, Spotify, positioning 
itself as the music streaming analog to Netflix, filed its 
prospectus. 
¨ With it's larger potential market capitalization and 
unusual IPO structure, Spotify has attracted more 
attention than Dropbox, and I would like to focus 
this post on it.
3
The Back Story - A Changing Business
Aswath 
Damodaran
3
4
The Spotify Business Model
¨ Free or Premium: Listeners can subscribe to a free version, with limited 
customization features (playlists, stations etc.) and online ads. 
Alternatively, they can subscribe to a premium version of the service, 
paying a monthly fee, in return for a plethora of customization options, 
and no ads. 
¨ Pricing: The company's standard service cost $9.99/month in the United 
States in 2018, with a family membership, where up to six family 
members living at the same address, can share a family service for 
$14.99/month, while preserving individualized playlists and stations.  
Prices vary globally, ranging from a high of $16.94 in the UK (for standard 
service) to much lower prices in Eastern Europe and Latin America
¨ Content Cost: Spotify pays for its music content, based upon how often a 
song is streamed, but the rates vary depending on whether it is on the 
free or premium service and where in the world, creating some 
complexity in how it is computed.
5
1. Growth Company
Aswath 
Damodaran
5
6
2. Predominantly Subscription Driven, with a 
discordant note
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
3. Declining Content Costs, but Taylor Swift 
and Jay-Z are no longer here..
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
4. Other Costs are big and getting bigger
9
The IPO Structure: Spotify Twists
¨ No Banks: In a typical IPO, the issuing company seeks out an 
investment bank, which not only sets an offering price (backed up 
by a guarantee) but also creates a syndicate with other banks to 
market the IPO, in roadshows and private client pitches. The 
Spotify IPO will dispense with the bankers and go directly to the 
market, letting demand and supply set the price on the opening 
day.
¨ Cashing Out: In most IPOs, the cash that comes in on the offering, 
from the shares that are bought by the public, is kept in the 
company, either to retire existing financing that is not 
advantageous to the firm, or to cover future investment needs. 
Spotify is aiming to raise about $1 billion from its offering, but 
none of it will go to company. Instead, existing equity investors in 
the company will be receiving the cash in return for their holdings.
10
Thoughts about Twists
¨ No bankers, no problem: Bankers don't value IPOs; they price 
them, usually with fairly crude pricing metrics, though they often 
reverse engineer DCFs to back up their pricing. Their guarantee on 
the offering price is significantly diluted in value by the fact that 
they set offering prices 10% to 15% below what they think the 
market will bear, and their marketing efforts are more useful in 
gauging demand than in selling the securities. 
¨ Control or Growth: The cashing out of existing owners sends two 
negative signals. 
¤ Equity investors who cash out) do not feel that staying on as investors in 
the company, as a publicly traded entity, is worth it. Since they have access 
to data that I don't, I would like to know what they see in the company's 
future. 
¤ The structure of the share offering, with voting and non-voting shares, 
indicates a consolidation of control with the founders, and the offering 
may provide an opportunity to get rid of dissenting voices.
11
My Spotify Story
¨ Continued (but Slower) Revenue Growth: Scaling and increased 
competition will result in a revenue growth of 25% a year for the 
next five years, scaling down to much lower growth in the years 
after . 
¨ With Reduced Content Costs: Since Spotify pays for its content 
based upon song streams, those savings have to come from either 
paying less per stream (which is going to and should create push 
back from labels and artists) or finding ways to create economies of 
scale on this cost component. I assume that they can reduce 
content costs to 70% of revenues, while finding a way to keep 
artists and labels happy. That is not going to be an easy balance to 
maintain, especially with the top artists, as evidenced by Taylor 
Swift's and Jay-Z's decisions to pull their music from Spotify.
12
With economies of scale reducing other 
costs, as a percent of revenues
13
With limited operating risk but significant
failure risk…
¨ With Limited Capital Investments: Spotify's business model is built for 
scaling, with little need for capital reinvestment, except for R&D and 
perhaps acquisitions. I assume that small capital investments can 
generate large revenues, using a sales to capital ratio of 4.00, the 90th 
percentile of global companies.
¨ Manageable Operating Risk but Significant Failure Risk: Spotify's 
subscription based model and low turnover rate among subscribers does 
lend some stability to revenues, though adding more subscribers and 
going for growth is a riskier proposition. 
¤ Overall, allowing for their business mix (90% entertainment, 10% advertising) and 
their global mix of revenues yields a cost of capital of 9.24%, at the 80th percentile 
of global companies; the firm is planning to convert much of its debt into equity at 
the time of the IPO, giving it a equity dominated capital structure. 
¤ However, the company is still young, losing money and faces deep pocketed 
competition, suggesting that failure is a very real possibility. I assume a 20% chance 
of failure, with failure translating into selling the company to the highest bidder at 
half of its going concern value.
14
And the loose ends…
1. Add the cash balance of the company of 1.5 billion Euros, 
ignore the proceeds from the IPO because of the cash-out 
structure 
2. Deal with options: Net out the value of 20.82 million 
options/warrants outstanding, with an average strike price 
of 42.56 Euros per share. 
3. Get share count: Dividing the equity value by 177.17 million 
shares (including restricted shares) yields a value per share 
of 88.26 Euros per share or $108.97. 
4. Non voting discount? The shares that you will be buying will 
be non-voting, implying a discount on this number, though 
how much you discount it will depend on how much you 
like and trust the company's founders.
16
Here’s what I left out
1. IPOs are a pricing game: To price Spotify, you have to 
decide your “comparable firms” (Netflix or Pandora) 
and your pricing variable (users or revenues). 
2. User-based, not top down valuations: You could value 
Spotify from the ground up, by valuing its existing and 
new users.
3. The Data Advantage: Spotify is learning about its 
subscriber music tastes and that data can be used to 
not only modify its offerings but perhaps create 
content that is more closely tailored to these tastes.
