Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr19/session4slides.pdf

43
Social Costs and Benefits are difficult to quantify 
because ..
Aswath Damodaran
43
¨Cannot know the unknown: They might not be known at 
the time of the decision. In other words, a firm may 
think that it is delivering a product that enhances 
society, at the time it delivers the product but discover 
afterwards that there are very large costs. (Asbestos was 
a wonderful product, when it was devised, light and easy 
to work with… It is only after decades that the health 
consequences came to light)
¨Eyes of the beholder: They are ‘person-specific’, since 
different decision makers can look at the same social 
cost and weight them very differently. 
¨Decision paralysis: They can be paralyzing if carried to 
extremes.
44
A test of your social consciousness: 
Put your money where you mouth is…
Aswath Damodaran
44
¨Assume that you work for Disney and that you have an opportunity 
to open a store in an inner-city neighborhood. The store is 
expected to lose about a million dollars a year, but it will create 
much-needed employment in the area, and may help revitalize it.
¨Would you open the store?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If yes, would you tell your stockholders and let them vote on the 
issue?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If no, how would you respond to a stockholder query on why you 
were not living up to your social responsibilities?
45
So this is what can go wrong...
Aswath Damodaran
45
STOCKHOLDERS
Managers put
their interests
above stockholders
Have little control
over managers
BONDHOLDERS
Lend Money
Bondholders can
get ripped off
FINANCIAL MARKETS
SOCIETYManagers
Delay bad
news or 
provide 
misleading
information
Markets make
mistakes and
can over react
Significant Social Costs
Some costs cannot be
traced to firm
46
Traditional corporate financial theory breaks 
down when ...
Aswath Damodaran
46
¨Managerial self-interest: The interests/objectives of the 
decision makers in the firm conflict with the interests of 
stockholders.
¨Unprotected debt holders: Bondholders (Lenders) are 
not protected against expropriation by stockholders.
¨Inefficient markets: Financial markets do not operate 
efficiently, and stock prices do not reflect the underlying 
value of the firm.
¨Large social side costs: Significant social costs can be 
created as a by-product of stock price maximization.
47
When traditional corporate financial theory 
breaks down, the solution is:
Aswath Damodaran
47
¨A non-stockholder based governance system: To choose a 
different mechanism for corporate governance, i.e, assign the 
responsibility for monitoring managers to someone other 
than stockholders.
¨A better objective than maximizing stock prices?To choose a 
different objective for the firm.
¨Maximize stock prices but minimize side costs: To maximize 
stock price, but reduce the potential for conflict and 
breakdown:
¤Making managers (decision makers) and employees into stockholders
¤Protect lenders from expropriation
¤By providing information honestly and promptly to financial markets
¤Minimize social costs
48
I. An Alternative Corporate Governance System
Aswath Damodaran
48
¨Germany and Japan developed a different mechanism for 
corporate governance, based upon corporate cross holdings. 
¤In Germany, the banks form the core of this system.
¤In Japan, it is the keiretsus
¤Other Asian countries have modeled their system after Japan, with family 
companies forming the core of the new corporate families
¨At their best, the most efficient firms in the group work at bringing 
the less efficient  firms up to par . They provide a corporate welfare 
system that makes for a more stable corporate structure
¨At their worst, the least efficient and poorly run firms in the group 
pull down the most efficient and best run firms down. The nature 
of the cross holdings makes its very difficult for outsiders (including 
investors in these firms) to figure out how well or badly the group 
is doing.
49
II. Choose a Different Objective Function
Aswath Damodaran
49
¨Firms can always focus on a different objective function. 
Examples would include
¤maximizing earnings
¤maximizing revenues
¤maximizing firm size
¤maximizing market share
¤maximizing EVA
¨The key thing to remember is that these are 
intermediate objective functions. 
¤To the degree that they are correlated w ith the long term  health 
and value of the company, they work well.
¤To the degree that they do not, the firm  can end up w ith a 
disaster
50
III. Maximize Stock Price, subject to ..
Aswath Damodaran
50
¨The strength of the stock price maximization objective 
function is its internal self correction mechanism. Excesses on 
any of the linkages lead, if unregulated, to counter actions 
which reduce or eliminate these excesses
¨In the context of our discussion,
¤managers taking advantage of stockholders has led to a much more 
active market for corporate control.
¤stockholders taking advantage of bondholders has led to bondholders 
protecting themselves at the time of the issue.
¤firms revealing incorrect or delayed information to markets has led to 
markets becoming more skepticaland punitive
¤firms creating social costs has led to more regulations, as well as 
investor and customer backlashes.
51
The Stockholder Backlash 
Aswath Damodaran
51
¨Activist Institutional investors have become much more 
active in monitoring companies that they invest in and 
demanding changes in the way in which business is done. 
They have been joined by private equity firms like KKR and 
Blackstone.
¨Activist individualslike Carl Icahn specialize in taking large 
positions in companies which they feel need to change their 
ways (Blockbuster, Time Warner, Motorola & Apple) and push 
for change.
¨Vocal stockholders, armed with more information and new 
powers: At annual meetings, stockholders have taken to 
expressing their displeasure with incumbent management by 
voting against their compensation contracts or their board of 
directors
52
The Hostile Acquisition Threat
Aswath Damodaran
52
¨The typical target firm in a hostile takeover has
¤a return on equity almost 5% lower than its peer group
¤had a stock that has significantly under performed the peer 
group over the previous 2 years
¤has managers who hold little or no stock in the firm
¨In other words, the best defense against a hostile 
takeover is to run your firm well and earn good returns 
for your stockholders
¨Conversely, when you do not allow hostile takeovers, this 
is the firm that you are most likely protecting (and not a 
well run or well managed firm)
53
In response, boards are becoming more 
independent…
Aswath Damodaran
53
¨Boards have become smaller over time. The median size of a board 
of directors has decreased from 16 to 20 in the 1970s to between 9 
and 11 in 1998. The smaller boards are less unwieldy and more 
effective than the larger boards.
¨There are fewer insiders on the board. In contrast to the 6 or more 
insiders that many boards had in the 1970s, only two directors in 
most boards in 1998 were insiders. 
¨Directors are increasingly compensated with stock and options in 
the company, instead of cash. In 1973, only 4% of directors 
received compensation in the form of stock or options, whereas 
78% did so in 1998. 
¨More directors are identified and selected by a nominating 
committee rather than being chosen by the CEO of the firm. In 
1998, 75% of boards had nominating committees; the comparable 
statistic in 1973 was 2%.
54
Disney: Eisner’s rise & fall from grace
¨ In his early years at Disney, Michael Eisner brought about long-delayed changes in 
the company and put it on the path to being an entertainment giant that it is 
today. His success allowed him to consolidate power and the boards that he 
created were increasingly captive ones (see the 1997 board).
¨ In 1996, Eisner spearheaded the push to buy ABC and the board rubberstamped 
his decision, as they had with other major decisions. In the years following, the 
company ran into problems both on its ABC acquisition and on its other 
operations and stockholders started to get restive, especially as the stock price 
halved between 1998 and 2002. 
¨ In 2003, Roy Disney and Stanley Gold resigned from the Disney board, arguing 
against Eisner’s autocratic style. 
¨ In  early 2004, Comcast made a hostile bid for Disney and later in the year, 43% of 
Disney shareholders withheld their votes for Eisner’s reelection to the board of 
directors. Following that vote, the board of directors at Disney voted unanimously 
to elect George Mitchell as the Chair of the board, replacing Eisner, who vowed to 
stay on as CEO.
Aswath Damodaran
55
Eisners concession: Disneys Board in 2003
Aswath Damodaran
55
Board Members Occupation
Reveta Bowers Head of school for the Center for Early Education,
John Bryson CEO and Chairman of Con Edison
Roy Disney Head of Disney Animation
Michael Eisner CEO of Disney
Judith Estrin CEO of Packet Design (an internet company)
Stanley Gold CEO of Shamrock Holdings
Robert Iger Chief Operating Officer, Disney
Monica Lozano Chief Operation Officer, La Opinion (Spanish newspaper)
George Mitchell Chairman of law firm (Verner, Liipfert, et al.)
Thomas S. Murphy Ex-CEO, Capital Cities ABC
Leo O’Donovan Professor of Theology, Georgetown University
Sidney Poitier Actor, Writer and Director
Robert A.M. Stern Senior Partner of Robert A.M. Stern Architects of New York
Andrea L. Van de KampChairman of Sotheby's West Coast
Raymond L. Watson Chairman of Irvine Company (a real estate corporation)
Gary L. Wilson Chairman of the board, Northwest Airlines.
56
Changes in corporate governance at Disney
Aswath Damodaran
56
1. Required at least two executive sessions of the board, without the CEO 
or other members of management present, each year . 
2. Created the position of non-management presiding director, and 
appointed Senator George Mitchell to lead those executive sessions and 
assist in setting the work agenda of the board. 
3. Adopted a new and more rigorous definition of director independence. 
4. Required that a substantial majority of the board be comprised of 
directors meeting the new independence standards. 
5. Provided for a reduction in committee size and the rotation of 
committeeand chairmanship assignments among independent 
directors. 
6. Added new provisions for management succession planningand 
evaluations of both management and board performance
7. Provided for enhanced continuing education and training for board 
members.
57
Eisners exit… and a new age dawns? Disneys board 
in 2008
Aswath Damodaran
57
58
But as a CEO’s tenure lengthens, does 
corporate governance suffer?
1. In 2011, Igerannounced his intent to step down as CEO in 2015 
to allow a successor to be groomed.  
2. The board voted reinstate Igeras chair of the board in 2011, 
reversing a decision made to separate the CEO and Chair 
positions after the Eisner years. 
3. There were signs of restiveness among Disney’s stockholders, 
especially those interested in corporate governance. Activist 
investors (CalSTRS) starting making noise and  Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS), which gauges corporate governance at 
companies, raised red flags about compensation and board 
monitoring at Disney. 
Aswath Damodaran
59
Iger’snon-exit and the Domino effect
1. In 2015 but Disney’s board convinced Igerto stay 
on as CEO for an extra year, for the “the good of 
the company”. 
2. In 2016, Thomas Staggs who was considered heir 
apparent to Igerleft Disney. Others who were 
considered potential CEOs also left.
3. In 2017, Disney acquired Fox and announced that 
Iger’sterm would be extended to 2019 (and 
perhaps beyond) because his stewardship was 
essential for the merger to work.
¤ Now, what?
Aswath Damodaran
59
60
What about legislation?
Aswath Damodaran
60
¨Every corporate scandal creates impetus for a 
legislative response. The scandals at Enron and 
WorldCom laid the groundwork for Sarbanes-Oxley.
¨You cannot legislate good corporate governance. 
¤The costs of meeting legal requirements often exceed the 
benefits
¤Laws always have unintended consequences
¤In general, laws tend to be blunderbusses that penalize 
good companies more than they punish the bad 
companies.
61
Is there a payoff to better corporate 
governance?
Aswath Damodaran
61
¨In the most comprehensive study of the effect of corporate governance 
on value, a governance index was created for each of 1500 firms based 
upon 24 distinct corporate governance provisions. 
¤Buying stocks that had the strongest investor protections while simultaneously 
selling shares with the weakest protections generated an annual excess return of 
8.5%. 
¤Every one point increase in the index towards fewer investor protections decreased 
market value by 8.9% in 1999 
¤Firms that scored high in investor protections also had higher profits, higher sales 
growth and made fewer acquisitions.
¨The link between the composition of the board of directors and firm value 
is weak. Smaller boards do tend to be more effective.
¨On a purely anecdotal basis, a common theme at problem companies and 
is an ineffective board that fails to ask tough questions of an imperial CEO.
62
The BondholdersDefense Against Stockholder 
Excesses
Aswath Damodaran
62
¨More restrictive covenants on investment, financing and dividend 
policy have been incorporated into both private lending 
agreements and into bond issues, to prevent future Nabiscos.
¨New types of bonds have been created to explicitly protect 
bondholders against sudden increases in leverage or other actions 
that increase lender risk substantially. Two examples of such bonds
¤Puttable Bonds, where the bondholder can put the bond back to the firm 
and get face value, if the firm takes actions that hurt bondholders
¤Ratings Sensitive Notes, where the interest rate on the notes adjusts to 
that appropriate for the rating of the firm
¨More hybrid bonds (with an equity component, usually in the form 
of a conversion option or warrant) have been used. This allows 
bondholders to become equity investors, if they feel it is in their 
best interests to do so.
63
The Financial Market Response
Aswath Damodaran
63
¨While analysts are more likely still to issue buy rather 
than sell recommendations, the payoff to uncovering 
negative news about a firm is large enough that such 
news is eagerly sought and quickly revealed (at least to a 
limited group of investors). 
¨As investor access to information improves, it is 
becoming much more difficult for firms to control when 
and how information gets out to markets.
¨As option trading has become more common, it has 
become much easier to trade on bad news. In the 
process, it is revealed to the rest of the market.
¨When firms mislead markets, the punishment is not only 
quick but it is savage.
64
The Societal Response
Aswath Damodaran
64
¨If firms consistently flout societal norms and create 
large social costs, the governmental response 
(especially in a democracy) is for laws and 
regulations to be passed against such behavior.
¨For firms catering to a more socially conscious 
clientele, the failure to meet societal norms (even if 
it is legal) can lead to loss of business and value.
¨Finally, investors may choose not to invest in stocks 
of firms that they view as socially irresponsible.
65
The Counter Reaction
Aswath Damodaran
65
STOCKHOLDERS
Managers of poorly 
run firms are put
on notice.
1. More activist
investors
2. Hostile takeovers
BONDHOLDERS
Protect themselves
1. Covenants
2. New Types
FINANCIAL MARKETS
SOCIETYManagers
Firms are
punished
for misleading
markets
Investors and
analysts become
more skeptical
Corporate Good Citizen Constraints
1. More laws
2. Investor/Customer Backlash
66
So what do you think?
Aswath Damodaran
66
¨At this point in time, the following statement best describes 
where I stand in terms of the right objective function for 
decision making in a business
a. Maximize stock price, with no constraints
b. Maximize stock price, with constraints on being a good social citizen.
c. Maximize stockholder wealth, with good citizen constraints, and 
hope/pray that the market catches up with you.
d. Maximize profits or profitability
e. Maximize earnings growth
f. Maximize market share 
g. Maximize revenues
h. Maximize social good
i. None of the above
67
The Modified Objective Function
Aswath Damodaran
67
¨For publicly traded firms in reasonably efficient markets, 
where bondholders (lenders) are protected:
¤Maximize Stock Price: This will also maximize firm value
¨For publicly traded firms in inefficient markets, where 
bondholders are protected:
¤Maximize stockholder wealth: This will also maximize firm value, 
but might not maximize the stock price
¨For publicly traded firms in inefficient markets, where 
bondholders are not fully protected
¤Maximize firm value, though stockholder wealth and stock 
prices may not be maximized at the same point.
¨For private firms, maximize stockholder wealth (if 
lenders are protected) or firm value (if they are not)
THE INVESTMENT PRINCIPLE: RISK 
AND RETURN MODELS
You cannot swing upon a rope that is attached only 
to your own belt.
Aswath Damodaran 68
69
First Principles
Aswath Damodaran
69
