Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch12.pdf

VALUING MATURE 
FIRMS
Aswath Damodaran
§Revenue growth is approaching the growth rate in the 
economy: While the growth rate for earnings for mature 
firms can be high, because of improved efficiencies, the 
revenue growth is more difficult to alter. 
§Margins are established: Another feature shared by 
mature companies is that they tend to have stable 
margins (at least across cycles)
§Competitive advantages: While some mature firms see 
excess returns go to zero or become negative with the 
advent of competition, other mature firms retain 
significant competitive advantages (and excess returns). 
§Debt capacity: The capacity to borrow money should 
increase at mature firms, although there can be big 
differences in how these firms react to this surge in debt 
capacity
§Cash buildup and return:  As earnings improve and 
reinvestment needs drop off, mature companies generate 
more cash from their operations than they need. 
§Inorganic growth: As companies get larger and internal 
investment opportunities do not provide the growth 
boost that they used to, many mature companies look for 
quick fixes that will allow them to continue maintaining 
high growth. One option, albeit an expensive one, is to 
buy growth in the form of acquisitions.
Aswath Damodaran
§Managed earnings: Mature companies 
are adept at using the discretionary 
power offered in accounting rules to 
manage earnings. 
§Management inefficiencies: Mature 
companies have long periods of stable 
operating history. 
§However, past earnings reflect how the 
firm was managed over the period, and 
to the extent that managers might not 
have made the right investment or 
financing choices, the reported earnings 
will be lower than could have been 
generated under better or optimal 
management. 
§If there is the possibility of such a 
management change on the horizon, we 
will undervalue existing assets using 
reported earnings.
Aswath Damodaran
§As companies mature, internal 
investments start to become scarce, 
relative to what the firm has available to 
invest. 
§As companies get larger, the new 
investments they make also must be 
sizeableto have any impact on overall 
growth. Although finding multibillion-
dollar internal projects is difficult, finding 
acquisitions of that size is easier, and 
these affect the growth rate almost 
immediately. 
§The third reason applies in businesses 
that have a long lead time between 
investment and payoff. In these 
businesses, there will be a lag between 
the initial investment in a new asset and 
the growth generated by that investment. 
With an acquisition, we are in effect 
speeding up the payoffs.
Aswath Damodaran
§Most mature companies have been publicly 
traded for extended periods, giving us access 
to more historical price data, as well as data on 
earnings variability over time. 
§They also have settled risk profiles, which 
stabilizes the data, and makes estimating 
equity risk parameters from historical data 
more defensible with this group of companies 
than it was with the growth companies that we 
analyzed in the preceding two chapters. 
§However, there are three estimation issues that 
can affect discount rate estimates. 
§The first is that mature companies accumulate 
debt from multiple places, leading to complex 
mixes of debt, in fixed-rate and floating-rate, in 
multiple currencies. 
§The second issue is that discount rates (costs of 
debt, equity, and capital) are affected by the firm’s 
mix of debt and equity. 
§The third factor comes into play for firms that 
follow the acquisitive route to growth. Acquiring 
a firm in a different business or with a different 
risk profile can alter the firm’ s discount rate.
Aswath Damodaran
§Because mature firms have growth rates 
that are close to that of the economy, the 
computation of terminal value might seem 
both more imminent, and simpler, with a 
mature company than with a growth 
company. 
§Although this is generally true, two factors 
can still cause distortions in the 
computation:
§Stable growth rates, unstable risk, and 
investment profile: To qualify as a stable-
growth firm that can be valued using the 
terminal value equation, the firm should 
have the risk profile of a stable firm 
(close to average risk) and should behave 
like a stable firm (in terms of 
reinvestment).
§Lock in inefficiencies in perpetuity:. If we 
lock in current values on profit margins, 
returns on investment, and discount rates, 
when estimating terminal value, and the 
firm is poorly run, we undervalue the firm 
by assuming that the current practices will 
continue forever.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§If your story for a mature business is an 
extension of its history, it may seem like 
there is little need for a 3P test, and that 
is true, with two exceptions. 
§The first is if macroeconomic or 
regulatory changes are imminent that 
could change the business economics, 
creating breaks with historical data. 
§The second is if the business that the firm 
is in is being disrupted by a new 
technology or business model.
§If you are assuming a change from a 
historical path, even if thatchangeis
merited and plausible, you need to test 
to see whether management canbe
changed.
Aswath Damodaran
§Revenue Growth: Ifyou are extrapolating past growth, check to see 
if markets/competition has changed. If you decide to break with 
historical growth rates and endow a mature business with much 
higher or lower growth in the future, you will need a strong story 
line to explain why this might happen. 
§Profitability: AFormost mature firms, the most prudent choice is to 
assume that margins will stay at historic norms. i.e., averages over 
the last five or ten years, for instance. Unlike high growth 
companies, where economies of scale and improving business 
models. If you do make an argument of a major shift in margins at a 
mature business, you must be prepared with an explanation in 
terms of business model or a changing market, as to why this 
might happen.
§Reinvestment: Mature businesses often shift away from internal (or 
organic) growth to acquisitions as their primary mechanism to 
continue to grow. To value these businesses, you need to consider 
whether these acquisitions will create value, and that assessment 
will require that you treat acquisitions just as you would capital 
expenditures, and forecast how much the company will spend, on 
average, on acquisitions in future years. 
§Risk: When the cost of capital reflects the existing business and 
financing mix that the mature firm is using, and if it decides to 
change one or both mixes, the cost of capital will have to change. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Since mature businesses derive the bulk of 
their value from investments that they have 
already made, it stands to reason that there will 
be less divergence of opinion, across 
investors, about that value. 
§However, this value will become more 
sensitive to two other choices that the firm 
makes:
§Financing mix: With mature businesses, changing 
the mix of debt and equity in running the business 
will have more greater impact on the value that 
you arrive at for the business, than with young or 
high growth businesses. 
§Cash balances and cash return: Mature 
companies, on the other hand, generate large and 
positive cash flows that they can choose to return, 
and if they do not, cash accumulates in these 
businesses. 
§The bottom line is that the value you estimate 
for a mature firm is far more dependent on 
your assumptions about financing and 
dividend policythan is the value that you 
estimate for a young or high growth firm. 
Aswath Damodaran
§With mature companies that are being 
disrupted, if your estimates of intrinsic 
value consistently stay above the 
market price, and the market prices 
drifts down, rather than towards your 
estimated value, it may be worth 
examining whether you are 
incorporating the effects of disruption 
sufficiently into your value. 
§When you value a mature business, using 
its existing financial statements as the 
basis for forecasting cash flows, and 
incorporating its existing financing mix 
and dividend policy, you are accepting 
incumbent management policy as a 
given. 
§If an activist investor, i.e., an investor 
with enough funds to take a significant 
stake in the company, takes a position in 
the company and pushes for change, that 
should be a trigger for you to reexamine the 
valuation of the business, as well. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Unilever has made some large acquisitions, including buying 
Bestfoodsfor $24.3 billion, in 2000, Horlicks for $3.8 billion, 2018, 
and Dollar Shave Club for $1.0 billion in 2016, and many small ones. 
These acquisitions clearly have not contributed to revenue growth in 
a noticeable way.
§All three businesses are low growth, 
with the food business shrinking 
between 2016 and 2021, and the beauty 
and personal care business is the 
most profitable part of the company, 
with an operating margin of 21.66% in 
2016, while the home care business lags 
the most, in terms of profitability.
Aswath Damodaran
§Revenue growth: We will assume that revenues 
will grow at 2% a year, which is higher than the 
historical growth rate, but also reflective of the 
higher inflation expectations at the time of this 
valuation.
§Operating margins: For next year, we expect 
Unilever to maintain the operating margin of 
18.38% that it delivered in 2021, and we expect 
those margins to stabilize around 18%, over the 
next few years.
§Reinvestment: With low growth, there will be 
relatively little reinvestment needed, and to 
estimate that reinvestment, which we expect will 
take the form of small acquisitions, we will assume 
€1.80 in revenue, for every euro invested.
§Cost of capital: At Unilever current financing mix, 
which is about 78% equity and 22% debt, and 
given the current geographic exposure for 
revenues, we estimated a cost of capital of 
8.97%, andassume that it will stay at that level in 
perpetuity. 
§Failure risk: Given Unilever’s history of large, 
positive earnings and ample cash reserves, we do 
not believe that there is any risk that the company 
will fail.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Scaling the Price: When scaling the 
pricing of mature companies, we have a 
luxury of choices (revenues, earnings, 
book value) 
§Peer Group Construction: As sectors 
age, there tend to be more mature firms 
that operate within them, but with 
globalization, those firms are often 
multinationals that are incorporated 
in different countries and operate in 
different regions.
§Controlling for Differences:. Even if you 
control your sample to include only 
money-making mature companies, not 
all mature companies are equally 
well positioned to protect their 
profitability.  
Aswath Damodaran
§Fight bias: One way to avoid bias is to 
pick the pricing multiple that you will 
use in pricing a company , before 
observing the results you get with each 
one. In making this choice, you should 
consider conventional practice (in terms 
of which multiple has been used most 
frequently in the past in a sector) as well 
as use business sense. 
§Go global: That will require you to 
(a)Clean up for accounting differences 
across countries, when comparing 
earnings or book value multiples and 
(b)Find ways to measure country risk, from 
operations, and incorporate it into the 
discount rate. 
§Control for competitive moats and 
exposure to disruption: When comparing 
pricing across companies in a peer group, 
you have tofind ways measuring 
competitive advantages at companies. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Yo u  s h o u l d  expect to see companies 
with higher margins, returns on capital 
and earnings growth rates to trade at 
higher multiples. 
§To get a measure of how much 
Unilever’s low growth may explain its 
lower pricing, we ran a regression of 
the PE ratios of the companies in the 
sector against their expected growth 
rates:
§PE  = 19.30 +152.65 (Growth Rate)  
(3.77)    (3.41)
§The R2= 37.94% and the predicted PE for 
Unilever is below
PE for Unilever 
= 19.30 + 152.65 (5.03%) = 26.98
§At 19.13 times earnings, Unilever still 
looks underpriced.
Aswath Damodaran
§Sizeable economic footprint: The probability of 
a business being disrupted increases 
proportionately with the amount of money that 
is spent on that business. 
§Inefficient production and delivery 
mechanisms: A common characteristic that 
disrupted businesses share is that they are 
inefficiently run, and neither producers nor 
consumers seem happy. 
§Outdated competitive barriers and inertia: If 
these businesses are so big and inefficiently 
run, you may wonder what has allowed them to 
continue in existence for as long they have. 
The strongest force that they have going for 
them is inertia, where consumers have been 
programmed to accept the status quo. Adding 
to the protections are regulatory or licensing 
requirements that have long outlived their 
original purpose and serve to protect 
incumbents from insurgencies, and/or 
significant barriers (capital, knowledge, 
technology) to entering the business.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Potential Problem Manifestations Possible fixes Value Consequence
Existing assets are poorly 
managed
Operating margins are lower than 
peer group and return on capital is 
lower than the cost of capital
Manage existing assets 
better. This may require 
divesting some poorly 
performing assets.
Higher operating margin and 
return on capital on existing assets -
> Higher operating income
Efficiency growth -> in near term as 
return on capital improves 
Management is under 
investing (It is too 
conservative in exploiting 
growth opportunities)
Low reinvestment rate and high 
return on capital in high growth 
perioduntilmarginal return on 
capital 
Reinvest more in new 
investments, even if it 
means lower return on 
capital (albeit > cost of 
capital)
Higher growth rate and higher 
reinvestment rate during high 
growth period -> Higher value 
because growth is value creating.
Management is over investing 
(It is investing in value 
destroying new investments)
High reinvestment rate and return 
on capital that is lower than cost of 
capital
Reduce reinvestment rate is 
at least equal to cost of 
capital
Lower growth rate and lower 
reinvestment rate during high 
growth period -> Higher value 
because growth is no longer value 
destroying
Management is not exploiting 
possible strategic advantages
Short or non-existent high growth 
period with low or no excess 
returns.
Build on competitive 
advantages 
Longer high growth period, with 
larger excess returns -> Higher 
value
Management is too 
conservative in its use of debt
Debt ratio is lower than optimal (or 
industry average)
Increase debt financing Higher debt ratio and lower cost of 
capital -> Higher firm value
Management is overusing debtDebt ratio is higher than optimal Reduce debt financing Lower debt ratio and lower cost of 
capital -> Higher firm value
Management is using wrong 
type of financing
Cost of debt is higher than it should 
be, given the firm’s earning power
Match debt up to assets, 
using swaps, derivatives or 
refinancing
Lower cost of debt and cost of 
capital -> Higher firm value
Management holds excess 
cash and is not trusted by the 
market with the cash.
Cash and marketable securities  are 
a large percent of firm value; Firm 
has poor track record on 
investments.
Return cash to 
stockholders, either as 
dividends or stock 
buybacks
Firm value is reduced by cash paid 
out, but stockholders gain because 
the cash was discounted in the 
firm’s hands.
Management has made 
investments in unrelated 
companies.
Substantial cross holdings in other 
companies that are being 
undervalued by the market.
As a first step, try to be 
more transparent about 
cross holdings. If that is not 
sufficient, divest cross 
holdings
Firm value is reduced by divested 
cross holdings but increased by 
cash received from divestitures. 
When cross holdings are under 
valued, the latter should exceed the 
former.
§Unilever shareholders have become 
restless with management, and a failed 
bid for GSK in 2022 crystallized their views 
that change was due at the company. 
§That dissatisfaction drew activist 
investors to its stock, with Nelson Peltz 
not only acquiring a 1.5% stake in the firm, 
but quickly finding a slot on the board of 
directors. 
§Peltz’s argument seems to be that Unilever has 
too many brands in its product portfolio, 
spread out across too many geographies and 
businesses.
§Whetherhesucceedsornotisalmostbeside
thepoint,sinceitisaboutmaking management 
accountable.
Aswath Damodaran
Valuation Input Status Quo Restructured Rationale
Revenue
Growth
2%foryears1-103%foryears1-5,
2%inyears6-10
Highergrowthin
India&China
Operating
Margin(pre-tax)
18% 20% More focus on 
(higher-margin) 
personal care 
division 
SalestoCapital1.80 2.50 Fewer
acquisitions
Costofcapital 8.97%->8.97% 8.00%->8.00% Optimizing
financingmix
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Our estimate of value per share increases from 
€24.20, in the status quo value, to €36.72 in the 
optimal value, an increase of about a third.
