Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session23test.pdf

Session	  23:	  Post	  Class	  tests	  
1. There	  is	  evidence	  that	  companies	  acquire	  a	  dividend	  clientele	  that	  reflects	  their	  
dividend	  policy.	  Thus,	  if	  you	  pay	  high	  dividends,	  you	  accumulate	  investors	  who	  
like	  high	  dividends	  and	  if	  you	  pay	  no	  dividends,	  you	  get	  investors	  with	  that	  
preference.	  If	  you	  do	  pay	  high	  dividends,	  which	  of	  the	  following	  groups	  of	  
investors	  are	  you	  more	  likely	  to	  see	  holding	  your	  stock?	  (You	  can	  pick	  more	  than	  
one)	  
a. Wealthy	  &	  younger	  individuals	  
b. Older	  &	  poorer	  individuals	  
c. Growth-­‐oriented	  mutual	  funds	  
d. Income-­‐oriented	  mutual	  funds	  
e. Pension	  funds	  
2. Assume	  that	  you	  are	  the	  CEO	  of	  a	  large	  power	  company	  that	  has	  historically	  had	  
a	  monopoly	  position	  in	  the	  market	  giving	  it	  stable	  earnings,	  thus	  allowing	  it	  to	  
pay	  out	  80%	  of	  its	  earnings	  as	  dividends.	  The	  government	  has	  just	  announced	  
that	  it	  will	  be	  opening	  the	  power	  market	  to	  competition	  from	  both	  domestic	  and	  
foreign	  companies.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  actions	  would	  you	  take	  on	  dividends,	  
given	  this	  announcement?	  
a. Nothing.	  I	  will	  continue	  to	  pay	  out	  80%	  of	  earnings	  
b. Freeze	  absolute	  dividends,	  allowing	  the	  payout	  ratio	  to	  decrease	  
over	  time	  (as	  earnings	  increase)	  
c. Increase	  the	  dividend	  payout	  ratio,	  to	  signal	  confidence	  in	  your	  
capacity	  to	  beat	  the	  competition.	  
d. Eliminate	  dividends	  entirely	  
e. Reduce	  your	  payout	  ratio	  to	  60%	  
f. Something	  else	  
3. Dividend	  changes	  can	  operate	  as	  signals	  to	  the	  market.	  Is	  an	  increase	  in	  
dividends	  always	  a	  positive	  signal?	  
a. Yes	  
b. No	  
Explain.	  
4. Assume	  that	  you	  are	  a	  firm	  that	  is	  considering	  suspending	  dividends,	  to	  redirect	  
cash	  to	  much	  needed	  investment	  projects	  that	  potentially	  could	  generate	  
significant	  profits	  for	  the	  company	  in	  future	  years.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  
market	  reactions	  would	  you	  most	  expect	  to	  see	  to	  your	  announcement	  of	  a	  
dividend	  suspension	  (accompanied	  by	  an	  explanation	  of	  the	  investments	  that	  
you	  plan	  to	  take	  with	  the	  cash)?	  
a. Positive	  in	  both	  the	  short	  and	  the	  long	  term.	  
b. No	  effect	  in	  the	  short	  term,	  positive	  in	  the	  long	  term	  
c. Positive	  in	  the	  short	  term,	  Negative	  in	  the	  long	  term.	  
d. Negative	  in	  the	  short	  term	  and	  long	  term	  
e. Negative	  in	  the	  short	  term,	  Positive	  in	  the	  long	  term
f.	  No	  effect	  in	  either	  the	  short	  or	  long	  term	  
5. Assume	  that	  you	  are	  a	  bondholder	  in	  a	  company	  that	  has	  just	  announced	  a	  large	  
stock	  buyback.	  The	  stock	  price	  has	  jumped	  up	  sharply	  in	  response.	  What	  would	  
you	  expect	  the	  bond	  price	  to	  do?	  
a. Increase.	  If	  it	  is	  good	  news	  for	  stockholders,	  it	  has	  to	  be	  good	  news	  for	  
bondholders.	  
b. No	  change.	  Bondholders	  are	  unaffected	  by	  a	  special	  dividend,	  
c. Decrease.	  
Explain.
