Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session23soln.pdf

Session	  23:	  	  Post	  class	  test	  solutions	  
1. b,	  d	  &e.	  Older,	  poorer	  individual,	  income-­‐oriented	  mutual	  funds,	  pension	  
funds.	  The	  first	  two	  groups	  value	  immediate	  cash	  flow	  more	  and	  care	  less	  about	  
taxes.	  Pension	  funds	  don’t	  pay	  taxes	  and	  often	  need	  the	  cash	  flows	  to	  meet	  
current	  claims.	  
2. b.	  Freeze	  dividends	  and	  allow	  the	  payout	  ratio	  to	  decrease	  over	  time.	  
Though	  this	  may	  be	  cowardly,	  I	  would	  start	  by	  freezing	  the	  dollar	  dividends	  and	  
watching	  how	  the	  competition	  affects	  my	  profits.	  If	  it	  looks	  like	  the	  competition	  
is	  hurting	  my	  bottom	  line	  and	  making	  it	  more	  volatile,	  I	  would	  reduce	  dividends	  
over	  time.	  	  
3. c.	  No.	  If	  you	  are	  a	  high-­‐growth	  company,	  where	  investors	  thought	  you	  had	  great	  
investment	  opportunities	  lined	  up,	  the	  payment	  of	  a	  dividend	  may	  send	  the	  
signal	  that	  these	  investment	  opportunities	  are	  not	  as	  good	  or	  plentiful	  as	  
assumed.	  
4. e.	  Negative	  in	  the	  short	  term,	  Positive	  in	  the	  long	  term.	  It	  is	  tough	  to	  predict	  
how	  markets	  will	  behave,	  but	  I	  would	  not	  be	  surprised	  to	  see	  stock	  prices	  drop	  
on	  the	  announcement	  (partly	  because	  investors	  might	  not	  believe	  me	  and	  partly	  
because	  my	  clientele	  may	  not	  like	  a	  cut	  in	  dividends).	  Eventually,	  I	  would	  expect	  
the	  stock	  price	  to	  reflect	  the	  positive	  effects	  of	  taking	  good	  investments	  but	  that	  
may	  be	  a	  long	  time	  coming.	  
5. c.	  Decrease.	  The	  stock	  buyback	  takes	  cash	  out	  of	  the	  firm.	  Since	  that	  cash	  
balance	  made	  the	  firm	  more	  credit-­‐worthy,	  paying	  it	  out	  will	  make	  it	  less	  so	  and	  
my	  bond	  prices	  will	  drop	  to	  reflect	  that.
