Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaJan20.pdf

AN ODE TO LUCK AND GOOD 
TIMING: REVISITING TESLA
Silence is golden!
2
My biggest adversary in investing = me!
¨ The biggest adversary that I face in both investing and valuation are the 
preconceptions and priors I bring into investment decision making, and no 
company epitomizes the dangers of bias more than Tesla. 
¨ It is a company where there is no middle ground, with the optimists 
believing that there is no limit to its potential and the pessimists 
convinced that it is a time bomb, waiting to implode. I have tried, without 
much luck, to navigate both extremes in my valuations of the company 
since 2013 and have been found wanting by both sides. 
¤ For much of Tesla’s life, I have pointed to its promise but argued that it was too 
richly priced to be a good investment, and during that period, Tesla bulls accused 
me of working for the short sellers. 
¤ When I bought T esla in June 2019, arguing that the price had dropped enough (to 
$180) to make it a good investment. That decision led to a backlash from Tesla 
bears, who called me a traitor for abandoning my position.
¨ Luck was on my side, and the stock has not stopped rising since. When 
Tesla’s earnings came out after close of trading yesterday (Januar y 29th), I 
knew that I had to revalue the stock and reassess my position.
3
Tesla in June 2019
¨ It is astonishing, but it was just over seven months 
ago when the sky was full of dark clouds for Tesla, as 
a collection of wounds, some internal (Musk’s tweet 
about “funding secured”, production problems and 
others external (the trade war with China) pushed 
the stock price down almost 50% from its start of the 
year pricing. 
¨ In a post in July 2019, I took a look at Tesla’s travails 
and valued the company, with assumptions that I 
admitted were conservative, to arrive at a value of 
just over $190 per share
5
The story since…
6
Why?
¨ Return to growth: In the middle of 2019, Tesla’s growth seemed to have 
run out of steam and there were some who believed that its best days 
were behind it. In the two quarters since, Tesla has shown signs of 
growth, albeit not at the breakneck pace that you saw it grow, earlier in 
its life.
¨ Operating improvements: In the second half of the year, Tesla seemed to 
be paying attention to its weakest link, focusing on producing and 
delivering cars, without drama, and even running ahead of schedule on 
new capacity that it was adding. 
¨ Radio Silence: I know that this will sound petty to Musk fans, but Elon 
Musk, has always been a mixed blessing for the company. While his vision 
has  been central to building the company, he has also made it a practice, 
to create diversions that take people’s attention away from the story line. 
The last six months have been blessedly free of distractions, allowing 
investors to focus on the electric car story.
7
A Pricing Feedback
¨ While price and value are driven by different factors, in the 
case of Tesla, there is a feedback effect from price to value 
because of (a) its high debt obligations and (b) its need for 
more capital to fund its growth. 
¤ As stock prices rise, the debt obligation becomes less onerous for two 
reasons. First, some of it is convertible debt, at high enough stock 
prices, it gets converted to equity. Second, Tesla’s capacity to raise new 
equity at high stock prices gives it a fall back that it can use, if it 
chooses to pay down debt. 
¤ By the same token, the number of shares that Tesla will need to issue 
to cover its funding needs, as it grows, will decrease as the stock price 
rises, reducing their dilution effect on value.
¨ There is a negative feedback effect, as well. When the stock 
price rises, the options outstanding at the company (32 
million to Musk & others) become a bigger drain on value.
8
Change in Base Year Numbers
9
Change in Forecasts
11
Breaking down the value change
12
What now?
¨ I went into this valuation wanting to hold on to Tesla for a little 
while longer, partly because it has done so well for me but mostly 
because if I can hold on for a few months, I will save a lot in taxes. 
¨ This desire may be driving the optimism in my assumptions, but 
even with those optimistic assumptions, my value per share of 
$427 was well below the closing price of $581 at the end of trading 
and even further below the $650  that Tesla was trading at in the 
after-market, after the earnings release. 
¨ I could raise my end year revenues to $200 billion ( plausible in a 
market this size) and give Tesla an 18% operating margin (perhaps 
by calling it a tech company) and arrive at a value of $ 1,168 per 
share, but that to me is pushing the limits of possibility, and one 
reason why I hold back on simple what-if analyses.
14
A Postscript
¨ My decision: Holding on to the hope that I could defer my sale of Tesla 
until June (to qualify for long term capital gains), I looked at buying puts 
to protect my capital gains, but that pathway is an expensive one at Tesla, 
given how much volatility is priced into the options. Reluctantly, I just sold 
my Tesla holdings at $640 this morning, and as with my buy order in June, 
I don’t expect immediate or even near-term gratification.
¨ No regrets: In fact, the momentum is strong, and the mood is deliriously 
good, implying that Tesla’s stock price could continue to go  further up 
and away. I am not tempted to stay longer, because I came to this market 
to play the investing game, not the trading game.
¨ A separation, not a parting: I will miss the excitement of having Tesla in 
my portfolio, but I have a feeling that this is more a separation than a 
parting, and that at the right price, Tesla will return to my portfolio in the 
future.
