Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate9.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE IX: A 
DIY VALUATION OF THE INDEX
Heat and Light…
2
The Lead In
¨ Markets are up: In the last few week, markets have settled in, 
mostly with an upward bias in these last few weeks, and the 
big question, as US equities climb back towards pre-crisis 
levels is whether the market has lost its bearings. 
¨ In the midst of bad news: After all, the news, whether on 
macroeconomic indicators or company-level earnings, is not 
just bad, but historically so. 
¨ And the experts are skittish: market gurus who are pointing 
to this disconnect as evidence that markets are just wrong 
and that a major correction is around the corner, but their 
credibility is undercut by the fact that many in this group have 
been forecasting this for the last decade.
3
Market Action: Equities
4
Market Action: Treasuries
5
Market Action: Corporate Bonds
6
Market Action: Commodity Prices
7
Market Action: Gold and Bitcoin
8
Equities: By Region
9
Equities: Country Heat Map
10
Equities: By Sector
11
Equities: Worst hit and Best Industries
Fundamentals…
Valuing the Market
13
Market Worries
¨ Disconnect from economic news: For some, the skepticism 
comes from the disconnect with macroeconomic numbers 
that are abysmal, as unemployment claims climb into the 
tens of millions and consumer confidence hovers around 
historic lows. I will spend the first part of this section arguing 
that this reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of what 
markets try to do, and a misreading of history. 
¨ In denial? For others, the question is whether markets are 
adequately reflecting the potential for long term damage to 
earnings and cash flows, as well as the cost of defaults, from 
this crisis. Since that answer to that question lies in the eyes 
of the beholder, I will provide a framework for converting 
your fears and hopes into numbers and a value for the 
market.
14
Explaining the disconnect…
¨ The first is that stocks are driven by earnings, not real 
growth in the economy or employment, and to the 
extent that companies can continue to generate income, 
even in stagnant or declining economies, you may see 
stock prices rise.
¨ The second is that the “economy” that stocks are tied to 
does not always have to be the domestic one, since 
globalization has made it possible for companies to 
continue to prosper in slow-growing economies.
¨ The third is time, since stock markets are prediction 
machines, albeit with a lot of noise and error, the link 
between markets and the economy, even if it exists, will 
be with a lag of months or longer.
15
Stocks and GDP
16
Value Drivers for the Index
17
1. Earnings
18
2. Cash Flows
19
3. Risk
20
My Story for the Market
21
My Valuation of the Index
22
Facing up to uncertainty
23
Under, Over or Correctly Valued?
¨ On June 1, the S&P 500 was trading at close to 3100, putting it near the 80th 
percentile of the distribution, bolstering the "market has gotten ahead of itself" 
camp, but there is something here for everyone. 
¤ If you are more optimistic about earnings in 2020 and 2021 than the the median analyst, and 
about how quickly and completely the market will recover from the crisis shock, you will arrive 
at a higher value than mine. 
¤ If you are more pessimistic about the future, perhaps because you think the market is under 
estimating the likelihood of a second wave of shutdowns or a surge in company defaults, your 
valuations will be much lower.
¨ I have not mentioned the Fed, and to those who are Fed -focused, it may seem like 
I am ignoring the elephant in the room. I have argued for much of the last decade 
that analysts and investors over estimate the effect that the Fed has on markets. 
To th e cou nter th at it is low  interest rates th at are keep in g th e in d ex level h igh , my 
response is that low interest rates cut both ways, first by lowering the discount 
rate (and thus increasing value) but also by signaling much lower growth in the 
long term (which I capture by lowering growth in perpetuity to the risk free rate).
24
In conclusion
¨ Dueling narratives: All investors have narratives, some explicit and 
implicit, about how they believe the economy and markets will evolve 
over time. Markets reflect a collective narrative and pricing. 
¨ Narrative clashes: There are times when your narrative will be at odds 
with that of the market. It is during those times that you will feel the urge 
to label markets as crazy or irrational, and to view yourself as the last 
sane person left on the planet. It is my experience that projecting your 
personal fears and hopes on to the market, and then getting angry when 
the market responds differently is a recipe for frustration. 
¨ Question, withhumility: That is not to say that markets cannot be wrong, 
but even if they are, a dose of humility is always in order . Right now, it is 
true that markets are collectively more upbeat about the future than 
most economists/market experts, but given their relative track records 
over time, are you really more willing to trust the latter? I most certainly 
am not!
