Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TechTakedown.pdf

TECH TAKEDOWN: COME EASY , 
GO EASY!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Change in the air?
¨ The last three weeks have been humbling ones for tech 
companies, especially the big four (Facebook, Amazon, 
Netflix and Alphabet or FANG) which seemed 
unstoppable in their pursuit of revenues and ever-rising 
market capitalizations, and for tech investors, many of 
whom seem to have mistaken luck for skill. 
¨ Some of the cheerleaders who were just a short while 
ago telling us that nothing could go wrong with these 
companies are in the midst of a mood shift, where they 
are convinced that nothing can go right with them.
3
The Rise of FANG: From 2012 to 2017
4
FANG and the S&P 500: Change in Value
5
Some perspective on the rise of FANG
¨ The four companies that comprise FANG added almost 
$1.7 trillion in market capitalization over these five years 
and accounted for one-sixth of the increase in value for 
the entire index. 
¨ Put simply, if you were a large-cap US portfolio manager 
and you held none of these stocks between 2013-2017, 
it would have been very, very difficult, if not impossible, 
to beat the S&P 500 over this period.
¨ Alternatively, if you had one or moreof these stocks in 
your portfolio over the entire five-year period, your odds 
of beating the market went up dramatically.
6
A Reversal in Fortunes: March 15, 2018 –
April 2, 2018
7
Here’s some perspective
8
The FANG Story Line
Aswath Damodaran
8
¨ Scaling Success: Each of these companies has been able 
to keep revenue growing rapidly, even as they scale up 
and acquire larger market share.
¨ Bigger Slice of a Bigger Pie: They have changed the 
businesses that they have entered, increasing the size of 
the total market by attracting new customers, while also 
changing the way business is run to their benefit.
¨ Profitability: Google and Facebook are money machines. 
Amazon and Netflix don’t look as good on the surface, 
but capitalizing some of their mis-categorized operating 
expenses makes them look better .
9
1. Scaling Success
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
2. Bigger Pie + Bigger Slice
¨ Make businesses bigger: Each of these companies 
has made the business they have entered bigger by 
drawing in new customers and users.
¤ With Google and Facebook, that business is advertising, 
and with Netflix, it is entertainment.
¤ With Amazon, it is just about any business it enters, from 
retailing to entertainment to cloud services. 
¨ Change them to their advantage: They have also 
changed the way the business is run to their 
advantage, thus claiming a larger share of the 
business.
11
3. Profitability
12
The Roots of Success
¨ Centralized Power: These companies are more corporate 
dictatorships, than corporate democracies. All four of these 
companies continue to be run by founder/CEOs, whose 
visions and narratives have focused these companies.
¨ Big Data: You can argue that what Google learns from our 
search behavior, Facebook from our social media interactions, 
Netflix from our video watching choices and Amazon from 
our shopping carts (and Alexa) is central to these companies 
being able to scale up successfully and change the businesses 
they are in. 
¨ Intimidation Factor: There is one final intangible in the mix 
and that is the perception that these companies have created 
in regulators, customers and competitors that they are 
unstoppable.
13
Has the story changed?
¨ CEO heads cannot roll: Unlike traditional companies facing crises, 
where CEOs can be offered by a board of director as a sacrificial 
offering to calm investors, regulators or politicians, the FANG 
companies and their CEOs are so intertwined, with power 
entrenched in the current CEOs, this option is off the table. 
¨ The Dark Side of Sharing The recent news stories about how the 
data that Facebook has accumulated on us was used has pushed 
some of us out of denial and perhaps into a reassessment of how 
we share data and how that data is used. It has also created a 
firestorm about data sharing and privacy that may result in 
restrictions in how the data gets used.
¨ No Friends: When other companies feel threatened by your 
success and growth, it should come as no surprise that many of 
them are cheering, as you stumble.
14
Three Scenarios
1. Sharing Pull Back: It is possible that the news stories about how 
exposed we have left ourselves, as a consequence of our sharing, 
will lead us to all to reassess how much and how we interact 
online. 
2. Tempest in a teapot: The story will blow over and that not only 
will the companies revert back to their old ways, but that they 
will continue to accumulate users and grow revenues, while doing 
so.
3. Data Protections: There may be new restrictions on how the data 
that is collected from their usage is utilized by the companies. 
That would include not only privacy restrictions, similar to those 
already in place in the EU, but also regulations on how the data is 
collected, stored and shared. In addition, the companies 
themselves may feel pressure to change current business 
practices, which while profitable, have left data vulnerabilities.
15
The Bottom Line (to be continued)
¨ Sharing genie is out of the bottle: I think that we are too 
far gone down the sharing road to reverse field, and that 
while we will have a few high profile individuals signal 
their displeasure by abandoning (or claiming to 
abandon) a platform, most of us are too attached to 
these firm’s products/services
¨ Bu there will be changes: There are changes coming to 
these firms, from within and without, that will increase 
costs and crimp revenue growth, and through those 
changes, the value.
¨ Buy, sell or sit on your hands: The only way to answer is
to value each of these companies and I will in the next 
posts/sessions.
