Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Netflix2018.pdf

NETFLIX: THE FUTURE OF 
ENTERTAINMENT OR HOUSE OF 
CARDS?
Aswath Damodaran
2
Setting the Table
¨ Netflix has changed not just the entertainment business, 
but also the way that we (the audience) watch television. 
¨ In the process, it has also enriched its investors, as its 
market capitalization climbed to $139 billion in March 
2018 and even after the market correction for the FANG 
stocks, its value is substantial enough to make it one of 
the largest entertainment company in the world. 
¨ Among the FANG stocks, with their gigantic market 
capitalizations, it remains the smallest company on both 
market value and operating metrics, but it has almost as 
big an impact on our daily lives as its larger peers.
3
The Rise of Netflix
4
Netflix: Operating History
5
The Three Phases of Netflix History
¨ DVDs in the Mail: In the first five-year period, 2002 through 2006, the 
company mailed out DVDs and videos to its subscribers, challenging the 
video rental business, where brick and mortar video rental stores 
represented the status quo, and Blockbuster was the dominant player. 
¨ The Rise of Streaming: As technology evolved to allow for the streaming 
of movies, Netflix adapted, with a few rough spots, to the new 
technology, while its brick and mortar competitors imploded. Netflix saw 
a drop in revenue growth that was not unexpected, but it also saw its 
content costs rise at a faster rate than revenues, as content providers (the 
movie studios) starting charging higher prices for content. 
¨ The Content Maker: In in the 2013-2017 time period, by shifting to 
original content, first with television series and later with direct-to-
streaming movies. For the first time in its existence, Netflix saw content 
costs rise at a rate slower than its growth in revenues, with operating 
profit margins, both before and after R&D reflecting this development.
6
The State of the Game
1. A Big Spender on Content: Netflix spends billions of 
dollars on content each year, but the way the content is 
accounted for can make it difficult to decipher how 
much.
2. With more and more on original content: More and 
more of Netflix spending is on original content, first on 
television and now on direct-to-streaming movies.
3. Adept at playing the expectations game: Netflix has 
managed to make markets focus on subscription count 
and gloss over its sharp edges.
4. And globalizing to succeed at it: To keep adding to its 
subscriber count, it has to go where the numbers are, 
in the rest of the world.
7
1. Big Content Spender
8
2. Much of it on original content
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
3. Adept at the expectations game..
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨ Netflix has managed to make the expectations game all 
about subscriber numbers, and every earnings report of 
the company is framed around these numbers, with less 
attention paid to content costs, churn rates and negative 
cash flows. 
¨ After its most recent earnings report in January, the 
stock price surged, as the company reported an increase 
of 8.3 million in subscribers, well above expectations.
¨ The danger is that in the process of playing the user 
game, Netflix may dig itself into holes that it may not be 
able to get out of.
10
4. A Global Presence
11
Netflix: A Subscriber-based Valuation
¨ In a subscriber-based valuation, you value a
company by first valuing existing subscribers, then 
the value added by new subscribers and close up by 
looking at the corporate cost drag.
¨ To do a subscriber-based valuation, you have to 
break costs down into 
a) costs for servicing existing subscribers
b) the cost of acquiring new subscribers and 
c) a corporate cost that cannot be directly related to either 
servicing existing subscribers or getting new ones.
12
Step 1: A Cost Breakdown
13
Step 2: Value Existing Subscribers
14
Step 3: Value New Subscribers
15
Step 4: Value the Corporate Drag
16
Step 5: Complete the valuation
17
Netflix versus Spotify
¨ Marginal Value per User: By paying for its content, both licensed 
and original, and using that content to go after subscribers, Netflix 
has built a more levered business model, where subscribers, both 
new and existing, have higher marginal value than at Spotify, where 
content costs are tied to subscribers listening to music.
¨ More Sticky Model: The Netflix model, which is increasingly built 
around original rather than licensed content, provides for a 
stronger competitive edge, which should show up in higher 
renewal rates and more pricing power, adding to the value per 
subscriber, both existing and new.
¨ More Risk: The Netflix model will deliver higher value from 
subscription growth than the Spotify model, but it comes with a 
greater downside, because a slackening of that growth will leave 
Netflix much deeper in the hole, with more negative cash flows, 
than it would Spotify.
18
The Value Driver: Content Cost Growth
19
My Decision
¨ A Game Changer: There is no doubt that Netflix has changed the 
way we watch television and the movies, and it is changing the 
movie/TV business in significant ways. By competing for talent in 
the content business, it is pushing up costs for its competitors and 
with its direct-to-streaming model, putting pressure on movie 
theaters and distribution. 
¨ In a dangerous business: That said, the entertainment business 
remains a daunting one, because the talent is expensive and 
unpredictable, and egos run rampant. The history of newcomers 
who have come into this business with open wallets is that they 
leave with empty ones.
¨ The defining factor: For Netflix to escape this fate, it has to show 
discipline in controlling content costs, and until I see evidence that 
it is capable of this discipline, I will remain a subscriber, but not an 
investor in the company.
