Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session6.pdf

SESSION 6: ACCOUNTING 
FINANCIAL RATIOS –
PROFITABILITY MEASURES
Accounting for Finance
2
From Absolutes to Ratios
qFinancial statements measure operations in absolute 
terms, i.e., in dollars, rupees or reais, depending upon 
the currency of denomination.
qAbsolute measures are difficult, if not impossible, to 
compare across companies, since bigger companies, all 
else held constant, should have higher dollar profits and 
carry more debt.
qRatios scale absolute values to each other, and allow for:
qComparisons across companies
qComparisons across time
qComparison to benchmarks
3
1. Profit Margins
4
Contribution & Gross Margins: The Costs 
of Production
• Contribution marginmeasures the pure profits that you 
generate with every marginal unit you sell, since it nets out 
only the variable cost associated with producing that unit, 
giving many software companies close to 100% contribution 
margins.
• Gross marginsare a close relative, providing a direct measure 
of marginal profitability and an indirect measure of how 
revenue increases flow into profits. To illustrate, Zoom, one of 
the few stocks that has seen its value increase during the 
crisis, reported a gross margin of 92% in 2019.
• Companies with high contribution and high gross margins 
have much more profit potential, other things remaining 
equal, than companies with low margins.
5
Operating Margins: Measures and 
Implications
• Operating marginsmeasure what is left after the other 
operating expenses of the company, which cannot be 
directly traced to individual unit sales, but are 
nevertheless necessary for its operations. 
• To the extent that these other operating costs (like 
SG&A) are fixed (or more fixed) than the costs of 
production, the difference between gross and operating 
margins becomes a simple proxy for potential economies 
of scale.
• Companies with high gross margins and low operating 
margins should see operating profits (and margins) 
improve much faster as they scale up than companies 
where operating and gross margins are similar.
6
EBITDA Margin: Measures and 
Implications
¨The EBITDA is a rough measure of operating cash flows, rough 
because it is before taxes and capital expenditures.
¨Notwithstanding that, it remains a measure of the cash 
generating capacity of a company, prior to discretionary 
choices (on how much to reinvest and borrow) and is used by
¤Lenders to determine whether the company can afford to borrow 
money, since debt has to be paid before capital expenditures are 
made.
¤Equity investors to decide whether the entire business is fairly valued, 
before it tries to expand its asset base.
¨Companies with high EBITDA margins generate higher cash 
flows per dollar of revenues and should be able to borrow 
more than companies with lower EBITDA margins.
7
Net Margins: Measures and Implications
¨Netting out taxes and interest expenses, and adding back 
income from cash and cross holdings, yieldsnet margin, 
a measure of what equity investors get to keep out of 
every dollar of revenues. 
¨It is a mixed and noisy measure, reflecting a company's 
operating model, its tax liabilities and its financial 
leverage (since debt creates interest expenses and 
affects taxes), as well as non-operating assets.
¨Companies with high net margins deliver more profits 
for equity investors, in the aggregate, but perhaps not a 
per share basis (if debt is the reason why net margins 
are lower than operating margins).
8
A Life Cycle View of Margins
9
2. Accounting Returns
¨With accounting returns, profits are scaled to measures of 
investment in a project or business. 
¨Broadly speaking, there can be differences in how accounting 
returns are measured based upon
¤How profits are measured, i.e., to just equity investors (net income) or to 
both debt and equity investors and whether profits are before or after 
taxes. In most cases, it is accrual incomethat is the basis for returns.
¤How investment is measured, i.e., investment made just by equity 
investors or by debt and equity investors. In most cases, accounting 
returns use the book value as the basis of investment measurement.
¤With any measure of accounting return, you can get different values 
depending upon timing, i.e., start of the period, end of the period or 
average for invested capital.
¨Consistency rule: A consistent measure of accounting return will 
measure both profits and investment to the same group (equity or 
capital).
10
Return on Equity
11
Return on Invested Capital
12
3. Efficiency Ratios
¨Efficiency ratios measure the revenue payoff that 
companies get from reinvesting back in their 
businesses. 
¨Turnover ratios, with revenues in the numerator are 
the most widely used measured of efficiency, though 
the denominator can vary:
¤Working Capital Turnover = Sales/ Non-cash Working 
capital (or individual items of working capital, like 
inventory or receivables)
¤Asset Turnover = Sales/ Total Assets
¤Capital Turnover = Sales/ Invested Capital
13
4. Measuring Financial Leverage
¨Debt Ratios measure how much a company has 
borrowed, relative to overall capital or to 
earnings/cashflows.
¨Debt can be scaled to overall capital or just to equity
¤Debt to Capital= Debt/ (Debt+ Equity): This is a measure of how 
much of the capital in a company comes from debt. 
¤Debt to Equity= Debt/Equity: This is a close variant of debt to 
capital, with debt stated as a percent of equity.
¨Debt can also be measured relative to 
earnings/cashflows:
¤Debt to EBITDA= Debt/EBITDA: This measures how much debt a 
company has relative to the cash it generates from operations, 
before taxes and capital expenditures.
14
Variants on calculation
¨What to include in debt
¤Only long term debt
¤All interest bearing debt
¤Debt inclusive of commitments (like leases)
¨Book or Market
¤Book values for debt and equity (from balance sheet)
¤Market values, measured as market cap for equity in a publicly 
traded firm, and if doable, market value of debt
¨Gross or Net
¤Gross debt is all debt
¤Net debt is all debt minus cash & marketable securities
15
5. Measuring Liquidity/ Credit Risk 
¨Coverage Ratios: These ratios measure how much buffer 
or coverage a company has in meeting commitments. 
¤With interest coverage ratio, the commitment is interest 
expenses, and it is scaled to operating income.
¤With a fixed charge coverage ratio, the commitment is expanded 
to include debt payments, and it is scaled to operating income + 
fixed charges.
¨Liquidity Ratios: These ratios measure how much 
liquidity companies have, to cover near-term needs or 
expenses:
¤Current ratio, measure current assets relative to current 
liabilities.
¤Quick ratio, looks at only liquid current assets relative to current 
liabilities. (Inventory is usually excluded.)
