Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/postclass/session6test.pdf

Session	6:	Post	Class	tests	
1. If	you	wanted	to	measure	the	capacity	of	a	business	to	increase	profits	as	it	
scales	up,	which	of	the	following	measures	of	profitability	would	you	look	at?	
a. Gross	margins	
b. Operating	margins	
c. Net	margins	
d. Difference	between	gross	and	operating	margins	
e. Difference	between	operating	and	net	margins	
f. Difference	between	gross	and	net	margins	
2. The	return	on	equity	and	the	return	on	invested	capital	are	designed	to	
measure	the	quality	of	investments	made	by	a	company	and	both	are	
computed	using	book	value	measures	for	equity	and	invested	capital	in	the	
denominator.	Why	do	we	use	book	values	(rather	than	market	values)	in	this	
computation?	
a. Because	book	values	are	less	volatile	than	market	values	
b. Because	book	values	more	accurately	reflect	the	values	of	assets	than	
market	values	
c. Because	book	values	are	more	likely	to	reflect	the	capital	invested	in	
existing	assets	and	projects	
d. Because	you	may	not	be	able	to	get	the	market	value	of	equity	and/or	
the	market	value	of	debt	for	most	companies	
e. None	of	the	above	
3. If	you	wanted	a	debt	ratio	that	would	be	an	indicator	of	default	risk	in	a	
company,	which	of	the	following	would	you	use?	Explain	why.	
a. Total	Debt/	(Total	Debt	+	Equity)	
b. Long	Term	Debt/	(Long	Term	Debt	+	Equity)	
c. Short	Term	Debt/	(Short	Term	Debt	+	Equity)	
d. Total	Debt/	EBITDA	
e. Long	Term	Debt/	EBITDA	
f. Short	Term	Debt/	EBITDA	
4. If	you	are	computing	an	interest	coverage	ratio	for	a	company	with	volatile	
earnings	and	rising	debt,	with	the	intent	to	measure	its	buffer	against	default,	
which	of	the	following	would	you	use?	
a. Current	year’s	EBIT/	Current	year’s	interest	expense	
b. Average	EBIT	over	time/	Current	year’s	interest		expense	
c. Average	EBIT	over	time/	Average	interest		expense	over	time	
d. Current	year’s	EBIT/	Average	interest		expense	over	time	
5. Turnover	ratios	are	measures	of	investment	efficiency,	but	often	have	to	be	
read	in	conjunction	with	operating	margins.	Rank	the	following	from	most	
efficient	to	least	investment-efficient	companies:	
a. High	sales	to	capital	and	low	operating	margins	
b. Low	sales	to	capital	and	low	operating	margins	
c. High	sales	to	capital	and	high	operating	margins	
d. Low	sales	to	capital	and	high	operating	margins
