Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Bubble2019.pdf

US STOCKS: OF BUBBLES AND 
COUNTERS! 
Aswath Damodaran
2
A Market Post?
¨ I don't write much about equity markets collectively, for 
two reasons. 
¤ The first is that there is nothing particularly new or insightful 
that I can bring to overall market analysis, and I generally find 
most market punditry, including my own, to be more a 
hindrance than a help, when it comes to investing. 
¤ The second is that I am a terrible market timer, and having 
learned that lesson, try as best as I can to steer away from 
prognosticating about future market direction. 
¨ As markets test their highs, talk of market bubbles has 
moved back to the front pages, and I think it is time that 
we have this debate again.
3
Who are you going to believe?
¨ There are clearly political and economic storms on the 
horizon but there seems to be no consensus on what 
those storms will mean for markets. 
¤ The US equity market itself has been resilient, taking bad 
macroeconomic and political news in stride, and a bad day, week 
or month seems to be followed by a strong one, often leaving 
the market unchanged but investors wrung out. 
¤ Investors themselves seem to be split down the middle, with the 
optimists winning out in one period and the pessimists in the 
next one.
¤ Market and macroeconomic experts seem for the most part 
either terrified or befuddled.
4
A Bubble or Not a Bubble?
¨ Why do so many people, some of whom have solid 
market pedigrees and even Nobel prizes, believe that 
markets are in a bubble? 
¤ The two most common explanations reflect a trust in mean 
reversion, i.e., that markets revert back to historic norms. 
¤ The third one is a more subtle argument about winners and 
losers in the market, and in the economy.
¤ The final argument is a conspiratorial one, requiring that you 
buy into central banking cabals and market co-conspirators. 
¨ With each argument, though, there are solid counter 
arguments and in presenting both sides, I am not trying 
to dodge the question, but I am interested in looking at 
the facts.
5
Bubble Argument 1: What goes up has to 
come down…
6
Counter Argument 1: It’s not just stock 
prices that have gone up…
7
Argument 2: Stocks are expensive (relative 
to earnings) and relative to history…
8
Counter Argument 2: But so are the 
alternatives to stocks..
9
Argument 3: The market has gone up, but 
the gains are from a few stocks…
10
Counter Argument 3: Not uncommon and 
what if? 
¨ Not unusual: There have been very few bull markets, where 
companies have shared equally in the gains, and it is more common 
than not for market gains to be concentrated in a small percentage 
of companies. 
¨ Economic shifts:  Each of the companies in the FAANG, for instance, 
has disrupted existing businesses and grabbed market share from 
long-standing players in these businesses and the nature of their 
offerings has given them networking benefits
¨ Regulatory backlash?It is possible, maybe even likely, that we will 
see anti-trust laws rewritten to restrain these companies from 
growing more or even breaking them up. While that would be bad 
news for investors in these companies, those rules are also likely to 
enrich some of the competition and push up their earnings and 
value.
11
Argument 4: A Central Banking Prop up?
12
Counter Argument 4: Interest rates would 
have been down anyway…
13
A Composite Indicator: The Implied ERP
14
Reading the ERP: 2009-2019
15
Market Correction?
¨ At this point, you are probably putting me in the bullish 
category, but I am neither bullish nor bearish, just 
market-neutral. 
¨ In other words, my investment philosophy is built on 
valuing individual companies, not taking a view on the 
market, and I will take the market as a given in my 
valuation. 
¨ Does this mean that I am sanguine about the future 
prospects of equities? Not in the least! With equities, it 
is worth remembering that the coast is never clear and 
that the reason we get the equity risk premiums is 
because the future can deliver unpleasant surprises.
16
Scenario 1: An Implosion in Fundamentals
¨ Slow or negative global economic growth: The global 
economic slowdown picks up speed, spreads to the 
US and become a full-fledged recession.
¨ Cash flow pullback: This recession in conjunction 
with a large crisis (Hong Kong spins out of control, 
Brexit takes down the EU with it, political upheaval 
in Saudi Arabia) causes earnings to drop and 
companies to drastically reduce stock buybacks.
¨ T . Bond rates start to move back up towards normal 
levels: Higher inflation and central banks losing their 
persuasive power cause rates to move back up.
17
Scenario 2: A Global Crisis with Systemic 
After Shocks
¨ There are multiple potential crises unfolding around the 
world and one of these crises may be large enough, in terms 
of global and cross sector consequences, to cause a major 
market pull back. 
¨ The triggering mechanism for the meltdown will be a jump in 
equity risk premiums to higher levels, as investors reassess 
market-wide risk, but for the crisis to have sustained 
consequences, it has to then feed into economic growth 
(perhaps through a drop in consumer and business 
confidence) and earnings and cash flows. 
¨ After a decade of false alarms, investors are jaded, but the 
crisis calendar is full for the next two months, as Brexit, 
impeachment, Middle East turmoil and the trade war all play 
out, almost on a daily basis.
18
Bottom Line
¨ I am going to pass on market timing, accept the fact that the 
markets of today will be globally interconnected and more volatile 
than the markets of the last century, and stick to picking stocks. 
¨ I hope that my choice of companies will provide at least partial 
protection in a market correction, but I know that if the market is 
down strongly, my stocks will be, as well. 
¨ I know that some of you will disagree strongly with my market 
views, and I will not try to talk you out of them. If you are a master 
macroeconomic forecaster who believes that a perfect storm is 
coming where there is a global recession with a drop in earnings 
and a loss or corporate confidence (leading to a pull back on 
buybacks), perhaps accompanied by high inflation and high interest 
rates, you definitely should cash out, though I cannot think of a 
place for that cash to go, right now.
