Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr22/session4slides.pdf

33
II. Stockholders' objectives vs. Bondholders' 
objectives
Aswath Damodaran
33
¨In theory:  there is no conflict of interests between 
stockholders and bondholders.
¨In practice: Stockholder and bondholders have 
different objectives. Bondholders are concerned 
most about safety and ensuring that they get paid 
their claims. Stockholders are more likely to think 
about upside potential
34
Examples of the conflict..
Aswath Damodaran
34
¨A dividend/buyback surge: When firms pay cash out as 
dividends, lenders to the firm are hurt and stockholders 
may be helped. This is because the firm becomes riskier 
without the cash.
¨Risk shifting: When a firm takes riskier projects than 
those agreed to at the outset, lenders are hurt. Lenders 
base interest rates on their perceptions of how risky a 
firm’s investments are. If stockholders then take on 
riskier investments, lenders will be hurt.
¨Borrowing more on the same assets: If lenders do not 
protect themselves, a firm can borrow more money and 
make all existing lenders worse off.
35
An Extreme Example: Unprotected Lenders?
Aswath Damodaran
35
36
III. Firms and Financial Markets
Aswath Damodaran
36
¨In theory:  Financial markets are efficient. Managers 
convey information honestly and and in a timely manner 
to financial markets, and financial markets make 
reasoned judgments of the effects of this information on 
'true value'. As a consequence-
¤A company that invests in good long-term projects will be 
rewarded.
¤Short term accounting gimmicks will not lead to increases in 
market value.
¤Stock price performance is a  good measure of company 
performance. 
¨In practice:  There are some holes in the 'Efficient 
Markets' assumption.
37
Managers control the release of information to 
the general public
Aswath Damodaran
37
¨Information management (timing and spin): 
Information (especially negative) is sometimes 
suppressed or delayed by managers seeking a better 
time to release it. When the information is released, 
firms find ways to “spin” or “frame” it to put 
themselves in the best possible light.
¨Outright fraud: In some cases, firms release 
intentionally misleading information about their 
current conditions and future prospectsto financial 
markets.
38
Evidence that managers delay bad news?
Aswath Damodaran
38
DO MANAGERS DELAY BAD NEWS?: EPS and DPS Changes- by
Weekday
-6.00%
-4.00%
-2.00%
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
Monday Tuesday WednesdayThursday Friday
% Chg(EPS) % Chg(DPS)
39
Some critiques of market efficiency.. 
Aswath Damodaran
39
¨Investor irrationality: The base argument is that investors 
are irrational, and prices often move for no reason at all. 
As a consequence, prices are much more volatile than 
justified by the underlying fundamentals. Earnings and 
dividends are much less volatile than stock prices.
¨Manifestations of irrationality
¨Reaction to news: Some believe that investors overreact to 
news, both good and bad. Others believe that investors 
sometimes under react to big news stories.
¨An insider conspiracy: Financial markets are manipulated by 
insiders; Prices do not have any relationship to value.
¨Short termism: Investors are short-sighted, and do not consider 
the long-term implications of actions taken by the firm
40
Are markets short sighted and too focused 
on the near term? What do you think?
Aswath Damodaran
40
¨Focusing on market prices will lead companies towards short term 
decisions at the expense of long-term value.
a. I agree with the statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
¨Allowing managers to make decisions without having to worry 
about the effect on market prices will lead to better long term
decisions.
a. I agree with this statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
¨Neither managers nor markets are trustworthy. Regulations/laws 
should be written that force firms to make long term decisions.
a. I agree with this statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
41
Are markets short term? Some counter (albeit 
not conclusive) evidence that they are not..
Aswath Damodaran
41
¨Value of young firms: There are hundreds of start-up and 
small firms, with no earnings expected in the near future, 
that raise money on financial markets. Why would a myopic 
market that cares only about short termearnings attach high 
prices to these firms?
¨Current earnings vsFuture growth: If the evidence suggests 
anything, it is that markets do not value current earnings and 
cashflows enough and value future earnings and cashflows 
too much. After all, studies suggest that low PE stocks are 
under priced relative to high PE stocks
¨Market reaction to investments: The market response to 
research and development and investment expenditures is 
generally positive.
42
If markets are so short term, why do they react to big 
investments (that potentially lower short term earnings) so 
positively?
Aswath Damodaran
42
43
But what about market crises?
Aswath Damodaran
43
¨Markets are the problem: Many critics of markets point to market 
bubbles and crises as evidence that markets do not work. For 
instance, the market turmoil between September and December 
2008 is pointed to as backing for the statement that free markets 
are the source of the problem and not the solution.
¨The counter: There are two counter arguments that can be offered:
¤The events of the last quarter of 2008 illustrate that we are more 
dependent on functioning, liquid markets, with risk taking investors, than 
ever before in history. As we saw, no government or other entity (bank, 
Buffett) is big enough to step in and save the day.
¤The firms that caused the market collapse (banks, investment banks) were 
among the most regulated businesses in the marketplace. If anything, 
their failures can be traced to their attempts to take advantage of 
regulatory loopholes (badly designed insurance programs… capital 
measurements that miss risky assets, especially derivatives)
44
IV . Firms and Society
Aswath Damodaran
44
¨In theory:   All costs and benefits associated with a 
firm’s decisions can be traced back to the firm.
¨In practice:  Financial decisions can create social costs 
and benefits.
¤A social cost or benefit is a cost or benefit that accrues to society 
as a whole and not to the firm making the decision. 
nEnvironmental costs (pollution, health costs, etc..)
nQuality of Life' costs (traffic, housing, safety, etc.)
¤Examples of social benefits include:
ncreating employment in areas with high unemployment
nsupporting development in inner cities 
ncreating access to goods in areas where such access does not 
exist
45
Social Costs and Benefits are difficult to quantify 
because ..
Aswath Damodaran
45
¨Cannot know the unknown: They might not be known at 
the time of the decision. In other words, a firm may 
think that it is delivering a product that enhances 
society, at the time it delivers the product but discover 
afterwards that there are very large costs. (Asbestos was 
a wonderful product, when it was devised, light and easy 
to work with… It is only after decades that the health 
consequences came to light)
¨Eyes of the beholder: They are ‘person-specific’ , since 
different decision makers can look at the same social 
cost and weight them very differently. 
¨Decision paralysis: They can be paralyzing if carried to 
extremes.
46
A test of your social consciousness: 
Put your money where you mouth is…
Aswath Damodaran
46
¨Assume that you work for Disney and that you have an opportunity 
to open a store in an inner-city neighborhood. The store is 
expected to lose about a million dollars a year, but it will create 
much-needed employment in the area, andmay help revitalize it.
¨Would you open the store?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If yes, would you tell your stockholders and let them vote on the 
issue?
¤Yes
¤No
¨If no, how would you respond to a stockholder query on why you 
were not living up to your social responsibilities?
47
Sothis is what can go wrong...
AswathDamodaran
47
¨M STOCKHOLDERS
Managers put
their interests
above stockholders
Have little control
over managers
BONDHOLDERS
Lend Money
Bondholders can
get ripped off
FINANCIAL MARKETS
SOCIETYManagers
Delay bad
news or 
provide 
misleading
information
Markets make
mistakes and
can overreact
Significant Social Costs
Some costs cannot be
traced to firm
1.Annual meetings 
are too tightly 
scripted & 
controlled
2.Boards are rubber 
stamps for CEOs
Covenant and lender 
protections provide only 
partial defense against 
shareholder overreach.
Markets are sometimes 
short term & oftentimes 
irrational. 
Businesses create side 
costs and side benefits to 
society that cannot be 
traced back to the firm.
48
Traditional corporate financial theory breaks 
down when ...
Aswath Damodaran
48
¨Managerial self-interest: The interests/objectives of the 
decision makers in the firm conflict with the interests of 
stockholders.
¨Unprotected debt holders: Bondholders (Lenders) are 
not protected against expropriation by stockholders.
¨Inefficient markets: Financial markets do not operate 
efficiently, and stock prices do not reflect the underlying 
value of the firm.
¨Large social side costs: Significant social costs can be 
created as a by-product of stock price maximization.
49
When traditional corporate financial theory 
breaks down, the solution is:
Aswath Damodaran
49
¨A non-stockholder basedgovernance system: To choose a 
different mechanism for corporate governance, i.e, assign the 
responsibility for monitoring managers to someone other 
than stockholders.
¨A better objective than maximizing stock prices?To choose a 
different objective for the firm, either by shifting to a 
different metric or stakeholder group(s).
¨Maximize stock prices but minimize side costs: To maximize 
stock price, but reduce the potential for conflict and 
breakdown:
¤Making managers (decision makers) and employees into stockholders
¤Protect lenders from expropriation
¤By providing information honestly and promptly to financial markets
¤Minimize social costs
50
I. An Alternative Corporate Governance System
Aswath Damodaran
50
¨Germany and Japan developed a different mechanism for 
corporate governance, based upon corporate cross holdings. 
¤In Germany, the banks form the core of this system.
¤In Japan, it is the keiretsus
¤Other Asian countries have modeled their system after Japan, with family 
companies forming the core of the new corporate families
¨At their best, the most efficient firms in the group work at bringing 
the less efficient  firms up to par . They provide a corporate welfare 
system that makes for a more stable corporate structure
¨At their worst, the least efficient and poorly run firms in the group 
pull down the most efficient and best run firms down. The nature 
of the cross holdings makes its very difficult for outsiders (including 
investors in these firms) to figure out how well or badly the group 
is doing.
51
One End game: Managerial Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
51
52
A Skewed Version: Crony Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
52
53
IIa. Choose a Different Metric to Maximize
Aswath Damodaran
53
¨Firms can always focus on a different objective function. 
Examples would include
¤maximizing earnings
¤maximizing revenues
¤maximizing firm size
¤maximizing market share
¤maximizing EVA
¨The key thing to remember is that these are 
intermediate objective functions. 
¤To the degree that they are correlated with the long-term health 
and value of the company, they work well.
¤To the degree that they do not, the firm can end up with a 
disaster
54
IIb. Maximize stakeholder wealth
¨A fairness argument:  To the extent that shareholder 
wealth maximization seems to, at least at first sight, put 
all other stakeholders in the back seat, it seems unfair .
¨An Easy Fix? The logical response seems to be 
stakeholder wealth maximization, where the collective 
wealth of all stakeholders is maximized. That is the 
promise of stakeholder wealth maximization.
¨Protective response: As corporations have found 
themselves losing the battle for public opinions, many 
CEOs and even some institutional investors seem to have 
bought into this idea.
Aswath Damodaran
54
55
The Business Roundtable’s Message..
¨While each of our individual companies serves its own corporate purpose, 
we share a fundamental commitment to all of our stakeholders. We 
commit to:
¤Delivering value to our customers. We will further the tradition of American 
companies leading the way in meeting or exceeding customer expectations.
¤Investing in our employees. This starts with compensating them fairly and 
providing important benefits. It also includes supporting them through training and 
education that help develop new skills for a rapidly changing world. We foster 
diversity and inclusion, dignity and respect.
¤Dealing fairly and ethically with our suppliers.We are dedicated to serving as 
good partners to the other companies, large and small, that help us meet our 
missions.
¤Supporting the communities in which we work. We respect the people in our 
communities and protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices 
across our businesses.
¤Generating long-term value for shareholders, who provide the capital that allows 
companies to invest, grow and innovate. We are committed to transparency and 
effective engagement with shareholders
56
Confused Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
56
57
If confused corporatism sounds like a good 
deal, some cautionary notes..
¨Government-owned companies: The managers of these 
companies were given a laundry list of objectives, resembling 
in large part the listing of stakeholder objectives, and told to 
deliver on them all. The end results were some of the most 
inefficient companies on the face of the earth, with every 
stakeholder group feeling ill-served in the process. 
¨US research universities: These entities lack a central focus, 
where whose interests dominate and why shifts, depending 
on who you talk to and when. The end resultis not just 
economically inefficient operations, capable of running a 
deficit no matter how much tuition is collection, but one 
where every stakeholder group feels aggrieved.
58
The ESG Promises: Cake for all, with no calories!
¨Good for companies: For companies, the promise is that 
being "good" willgenerate higher profitsfor the 
company, at least in thelong term, with lower risk, and 
thus make them more valuable.
¨Good for investors: For investors in these companies, the 
promise is that investing in "good" companies 
willgenerate higher returnsthan investing in "bad" or 
middling companies.
¨Good for society: For society, the promise is that not 
only would good companies helpfight problems directly 
related to ESG, like climate change and low wages, but 
also counter more general problems like income 
inequality and healthcare crises.
59
But what comprises goodness? The 
services disagree..
60
1. ESG and Value: Where’s the beef?
¨A Weak Link to Profitability: There is a small positive link between ESG and 
profitability, but one that is very sensitive to how profits are measured 
and over what period. Breaking down ESG into its component 
parts,environment (E) offered the strongest positive link to performance 
and social (S) the weakest, with governance (G) falling in the middle.
¨A Stronger Link to Funding Costs:Studies of “sin” stocks, i.e., companies 
involved in businesses such as producing alcohol, tobacco, and gaming, 
find that these stocks are less commonly held by institutions and that 
they face higher costs for funding, from equity and debt). While these 
companies face higher costs, and have lower value, investors in these 
companies generate higher returns.
¨And to Failure/Disaster Risk: “Bad” companies are exposed to disaster 
risks, where a combination of missteps by the company, luck, and a failure 
to build in enough protective controls (because they cost too much) can 
cause a disaster, either in human or financial terms.
61
2. ESG and Returns: Mixed findings
¨ Invest in bad companies: A comparisonof two Vanguard Index funds, the Vice fund 
(invested in tobacco, gambling, and defense companies) and the FTSE Social Index fund 
(invested in companies screened for good corporate behavior on multiple dimensions) 
and note that a dollar invested in the former in August 2002 would have been worth 
almost 20% more by 2015 than a dollar invested in the latter .
¨ Invest in good companies: There are some studies that find that good companies earn 
higher returns, but the outperformance is more due to factor and industry tilts than to 
social responsiveness. Some of the strongest links between returns and ESG come from 
the governance portion, which, as we noted earlier, is ironic, because the essence of 
governance, at least as measured in most of these studies, is fealty to shareholder 
rights, which is at odds with the current ESG framework that pushes for a stakeholder 
perspective.
¨ ESG has no effect: Splitting the difference, there are other studies that find little or no 
differences in returns between good and bad companies. In fact, studies that more 
broadly look at factors that have driven stock returns for the last few decades find that 
much of the positive payoff attributed to ESG comes from its correlation with 
momentum and growth.
62
3. ESG and Society
¨There are some who argue that even if ESG is bad for 
companies and investors, it is good for society, because 
companies will treat their customers and employees 
better, while catering to their local communities.
¨There are three fundamental flaws:
¤Greenwashing: ESG allows companies to sound good, while not 
doing good, and that it will allow for posturing and public 
relation ploys that do little to advance public good. 
¤Outsourcing goodness: It makes the CEOs the arbiters of 
goodness and badness.
¤Behind the curtain: Pressuring companies to invest in the good 
and divest themselves or avoid the bad may only push bad 
behavior to less observable and monitored parts of the 
economy.
