Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session4test.pdf

Session	  4:	  Post	  Class	  tests	  
1. You	  are	  the	  CEO	  of	  a	  publicly	  traded	  company	  and	  are	  exploring	  ways	  to	  make	  
your	  company	  more	  socially	  responsible.	  To	  do	  so,	  you	  recognize	  that	  you	  may	  
have	  to	  incur	  costs	  or	  turn	  away	  revenue	  sources,	  as	  a	  result	  of	  some	  of	  your	  
choices.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  would	  you	  do?	  
a. Only	  adopt	  those	  socially	  responsible	  practices	  that	  don’t	  cost	  you	  profits	  
b. Only	  adopt	  those	  socially	  responsible	  practices	  that	  you	  can	  use	  as	  a	  
public	  relations	  tool	  
c. Adopt	  all	  the	  practices	  that	  will	  make	  you	  more	  socially	  responsible	  and	  
argue	  that	  stockholders	  have	  no	  say	  in	  the	  process	  
d. Give	  stockholders	  a	  say	  in	  whether	  or	  not	  you	  should	  adopt	  those	  CSR	  
practices	  that	  may	  cost	  you	  profits	  
e. None	  of	  the	  above	  
2. One	  alternative	  to	  the	  “stockholder”	  focused	  corporate	  governance	  system	  that	  
the	  US	  has	  adopted	  is	  a	  more	  centralized	  system,	  where	  corporate	  groups	  (Japan,	  
Germany)	  or	  expert	  entities	  (China?)	  decide	  how	  and	  when	  to	  discipline	  
managers.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  statements	  best	  characterizes	  the	  latter?	  
a. They	  are	  more	  efficient	  (than	  stockholder	  based	  systems)	  in	  dealing	  will	  
all	  types	  of	  management	  problems	  
b. They	  are	  more	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  company-­‐specific	  problems	  
(individual	  companies	  that	  are	  poorly	  run)	  but	  less	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  
with	  systematic	  problems	  (where	  lots	  of	  companies	  make	  the	  same	  
mistake)	  
c. They	  are	  less	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  company-­‐specific	  problems	  but	  
more	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  systematic	  problems	  
d. They	  are	  less	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  all	  types	  of	  management	  problems	  
3. One	  of	  the	  arguments	  in	  favor	  of	  a	  “market-­‐based”	  system	  is	  that	  it	  is	  self-­‐
correcting.	  When	  managers	  put	  their	  interests	  consistently	  over	  those	  of	  
stockholders,	  which	  of	  the	  following	  is	  an	  example	  of	  this	  self-­‐correcting	  process	  
at	  work?	  
a. Proxy	  fights	  (where	  an	  investor	  challenges	  incumbent	  managers)	  
b. An	  hostile	  acquisition	  attempt	  on	  the	  firm	  
c. Activist	  investors	  “invest”	  in	  the	  company	  
d. A	  more	  assertive	  board	  of	  directors	  
e. All	  of	  the	  above	  
4. Stronger	  corporate	  governance	  is	  designed	  to	  make	  managers	  more	  accountable	  
to	  stockholders.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  statements	  best	  describes	  what	  good	  
corporate	  governance	  creates?	  
a. With	  good	  corporate	  governance,	  all	  companies	  will	  be	  well	  managed	  
b. With	  good	  corporate	  governance,	  stockholders	  will	  replace	  the	  managers	  
of	  all	  badly	  managed	  companies	  
c. With	  good	  corporate	  governance,	  stockholders	  will	  get	  a	  say	  in	  whether	  
to	  replace	  managers	  in	  only	  badly	  managed	  companies	  
d. With	  good	  corporate	  governance,	  stockholders	  will	  get	  a	  say	  in	  whether	  
to	  replace	  managers	  in	  all	  companies
e. None	  of	  the	  above	  
5. Assume	  that	  you	  advising	  the	  managers	  of	  a	  publicly	  traded	  company	  in	  an	  
emerging	  market	  with	  illiquid,	  poorly	  functioning	  financial	  markets	  but	  strong	  
protections	  for	  lenders.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  objectives	  would	  you	  suggest	  as	  
the	  “central”	  objective	  for	  the	  company?	  
a. Maximize	  the	  stock	  price	  
b. Maximize	  stockholder	  wealth,	  even	  if	  that	  means	  accepting	  lower	  stock	  
prices	  (because	  markets	  make	  mistakes)	  
c. Maximize	  book	  value	  of	  equity	  
d. Maximize	  revenue	  growth	  
e. None	  of	  the	  above
