Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session4soln.pdf

Session	  4:	  Post	  class	  test	  solutions	  
1. d.	  Give	  stockholders	  a	  say	  in	  whether	  or	  not	  you	  should	  adopt	  those	  CSR	  
practices	  that	  may	  cost	  you	  profits.	  If	  you	  want	  to	  be	  socially	  responsible,	  you	  
have	  to	  be	  willing	  to	  commit	  resources	  (code	  for	  lower	  profits	  at	  least	  in	  the	  near	  
term).	  However,	  as	  the	  CEO	  of	  a	  publicly	  traded	  firm,	  you	  have	  to	  be	  transparent	  
and	  let	  stockholders	  have	  a	  say	  at	  least	  on	  the	  broad	  contours	  of	  what	  you	  plan	  
to	  do	  (i.e.,	  how	  much	  profits	  they	  will	  be	  willing	  to	  give	  up	  in	  return	  for	  being	  
socially	  responsible)	  
2. b.	  They	  are	  more	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  company-­‐specific	  problems	  
(individual	  companies	  that	  are	  poorly	  run)	  but	  less	  efficient	  at	  dealing	  with	  
systematic	  problems	  (where	  lots	  of	  companies	  make	  the	  same	  mistake).	  	  
Elitist	  or	  expert	  systems	  are	  quicker	  and	  deal	  more	  efficiently	  with	  small	  
mistakes	  but	  are	  less	  willing	  to	  confront	  system-­‐wide	  problems,	  often	  because	  
they	  contributed	  to	  creating	  the	  problems	  in	  the	  first	  place.	  	  	  
3. e.	  All	  of	  the	  above.	  Hostile	  acquisitions,	  proxy	  fights,	  activist	  investors	  
becoming	  more	  vocal	  and	  more	  assertive	  boards	  all	  represent	  the	  correcting	  
mechanism	  at	  work.	  They	  happen	  in	  response	  to	  managers	  mismanaging	  the	  
firm	  and	  hurting	  stockholder	  interests.	  
4. d.	  With	  good	  corporate	  governance,	  stockholders	  will	  get	  a	  say	  in	  whether	  
to	  replace	  managers	  in	  all	  companies.	  	  Good	  corporate	  governance	  is	  like	  a	  
good	  democracy.	  It	  does	  not	  guarantee	  that	  you	  will	  get	  a	  good	  government	  
(management)	  or	  that	  voters	  (stockholders)	  will	  use	  their	  power	  only	  wisely.	  
They	  will	  get	  the	  power,	  though,	  to	  choose	  for	  themselves.	  	  
5. b.	  Maximize	  stockholder	  wealth,	  even	  if	  that	  means	  accepting	  lower	  stock	  
prices	  (because	  markets	  make	  mistakes).	  Maximizing	  stock	  prices	  is	  
dangerous	  in	  an	  illiquid,	  unreliable	  market	  and	  since	  lenders	  are	  protected,	  
maximizing	  stockholder	  wealth	  makes	  sense,	  though	  the	  stock	  price	  may	  take	  a	  
while	  to	  catch	  up.
