Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ZomatoIPO.pdf

THE ZOMATO IPO: A BET ON BIG 
MARKETS & PLATFORMS
Valuation First Principles
2
A much-watched IPO
qZomato, an Indian online food-delivery company, started 
trading on the Sensex on July 14, 2021, and its market debut 
is being watched for clues by a number of other online 
ventures in India, waiting in the wings to go public. 
qThe primary attraction, to investors, of the company comes not from 
its current standing (modest revenues and big losses), but from its 
capacity to take advantage of the potential growth in the Indian food 
delivery market. 
qIn this post, I will value Zomato, and rather than just make a value 
judgment (which I will), I will also tie the value per share to macro 
expectations about the overall market. 
qI will argue that a bet on Zomato is as much a bet on the 
company’s business model, as it is a bet on Indian consumers 
not only acquiring more buying power and digital access, but 
also changing their eating behavior .
3
Setting the Stage: Zomato’s history
¨Zomato was founded in 2008 by DeepinderGoel and 
Pankaj Chaddah, as Foodiebay, in response to the 
difficulties that they noticed the difficulties that their 
office mates were having in downloading menus for 
restaurants, that they wanted to order food from. 
¨Their initial response was a simple one, where they 
uploaded soft copies of menus of local restaurants, in 
Delhi, on to their website, initially for people in their 
office, and then to everyone in the city. 
¨As the popularity grew, they expanded to other large 
Indian cities, and in 2010, they renamed the company 
"Zomato", with the tagline of "never have a bad meal".
4
And Business Model
¨ Transaction Fees: The bulk of Zomato's revenues come from the transactions on 
its platform, from food ordering and delivery, as the company keeps a percentage 
of the total order value for itself. While Zomato's revenue slice varies across 
restaurants, decreasing with restaurant profile and reach, it remains about 20-
25% of gross order value. 
¨ Advertising: Restaurants that list on Zomato have to pay a fixed fee to get listed, 
but they can also spend more on advertising, based upon customer visits and 
resetting revenues, to get additional visibility.
¨ Subscriptions to Zomato Gold (Pro): Zomato also offers a subscription service, and 
subscribers to Zomato Gold (now Zomato Pro) get discounts on food and faster 
deliveries. The service was initiated in 2017 and it had 1.5 million plus members in 
2021, delivering subscription revenues of 600 million rupees (a little less than $ 10 
million, and less than 5% of overall revenues) in 2021.
¨ Restaurant Raw Material: In 2018, Zomato introduced HyperPure, a service 
directed at restaurants, offering groceries and meats that are source-checked for 
quality.
5
Cash Burn? VC Investors
6
Acquisition-driven Growth
7
Zomato’s Shareholder Base (Pre-IPO)
8
The Food Delivery Market
9
Difference Drivers
¨Lower per-capita income: Eating out and prosperity don't always go hand 
in hand, but you are more likely to eat out, as your discretionary income 
rises. Thus, it should come as no surprise that the number of restaurants 
increases with per capita GDP , and that one reason for the paucity of 
restaurants(and food delivery) in India is its low GDP , less than a fifth of 
per capital GDP in China and a fraction of per capital GDP in the US & EU.
¨Less digital reach: To use online restaurant services, you first need to be 
online, and digital reach in India, in spite of advances in recent years, lags 
digital reach in China, and is about half the reach in the US and the EU.
¨Eating habits: Looking across the regions, it seems clear that there is a 
third factor at play, a pre-disposition to eat out in the populace. Looking 
at the number of restaurants in China and the size of its food delivery 
market, it is quite clear that Chinese consumers are far more willing to eat 
out (either in person at or with delivery from restaurants) than people 
living in the US and EU, especially if you control for per capita income 
differences.
10
Indian Market Size, adjusted for income 
and digital reach…
11
Zomato: The Prospectus
¨Definitions and abbreviations: The prospectus starts, and I wonder 
whether this is by design, with 17 pages of abbreviations of terms, some 
of which are obvious and need no definition (board of directors, 
shareholders), some of which are meaningless even when expanded (19 
classes of preferred shares, all of which will be replaced with common 
shares after the IP) and some of which are just corporate names.
¨Risk Profile: If you did not believe my assertions about the pointlessness 
of risk sections in IPOs, please do read all 30 pages of Zomato's risk profile 
(pages 39-68 of the prospectus). The company lists 69 different risks 
investors may face from investing in the company, and after you have read 
them all, I dare you to list three on that list that you would remember .
¨Subsidiary/Holdings Mess: I find it mind boggling that a company that is 
only thirteen years old has managed to accumulate as many subsidiaries, 
both in India and overseas, as Zomato has done. Since Zomato owns 100% 
of most of these subsidiaries, there may be legal or tax reasons for this 
structure, but there is no denying that it adds complexity (and pages) to 
the prospectus, with no real information benefits.
12
Growth & Profitability Trends
13
Quarterly Come back?
14
Unit Economics
15
Competitive Advantages
16
Zomato: Story Pieces
¨ Total  M arket:, I find it hard to see thetotal market exceeding $40 billion, with US $20-$30 billion, in 
ten years,being a more likely outcome. (In rupee terms, this will translate into a market that is 
roughly 1800-2000 billion INR.)
¨ Market Share: Expecting any company to have amarket share that exceeds 40%of this market is a 
reach, and I will assume that Zomato will be one of the winners/survivors
¨ Revenue Share: That number was 23.13% in FY 2020, but dropped to 21.03% in FY 2021, as shut 
downs put a crimp on business. I will assume apartial bounce back to 22% of GOV, starting in 
2022, but the presence of Amazon Food will prevent a return to higher values in the future.
¨ Profitability: I will assume thatpre-tax operating margins will trend towards 30%, largely because I 
believe that the market will be dominated by a few big players, but with the very real possibility 
that one rogue player that is unwilling to play the game can upend profitability. 
¨ Reinvestment: One of the advantages of being an intermediary business is that you can grow with 
relatively little capital investment, defined in conventional form (as plant, equipment or 
manufacturing facilities). That said, reinvestment takes a different form for online intermediaries, 
like Zomato, with investments in technology and in acquisitions, driving future growth. 
¨ Risk: In terms of operating risk, the company, in spite of its global ambitions, is still primarily an 
Indian company, dependent on Indian macroeconomic growth to succeed, and my rupee cost of 
capital will incorporate the country risk.Zomato is a money losing company, but it is no start-up, 
facing imminent failure. On the plus side, its size and access to capital, as well as its post-IPO 
augmented cash balance, push down the risk of failure. Overall, I will attach a likelihood of failure 
of 10%, reflecting this balance.
19
Add-ons and Distractions: Platform 
Optionality
¨As a company with millions of users on its platform, if 
Zomato can deliver other products and services to the 
users oftheplatform, it can augment its earnings and 
value.
¤First, not all platforms are created equal, in terms of being 
adding value, with platforms with more intense users and 
proprietary data having more value than platforms where users 
are transitory and there is little exclusive data being collected. 
¤Second, even if you believe that there is optionality, attach a 
numerical value to that option is one of the most difficult tasks 
in investment. While there are option pricing models that can be 
adapted to do the valuation, getting the inputs for these models, 
especially before the optionality takes form, is difficult to do.
20
A Big Market Premium?
¨Indian and Chinese companies, especially in young and 
nascent businesses, have an advantage that they often play 
to, which is immense local markets. It is not surprising that 
companies play up this advantage, when marketing 
themselves to investors, with some analysts attaching 
premiums to value, just because of market size. 
¤Double counting: I believe that this is a distraction, because that 
market size should already by incorporated into the intrinsic value, 
through growth and margin expectations. In my base case valuation of 
Zomato, I assume that revenues will increase more than twenty-fold 
over the next 10 years, because the Indian market is expected to grow 
so strongly. 
¤The Big Market Delusion: In fact, the danger to investors, when faced 
with Indian and Chinese companies, is not that they will under value 
these companies, but that they will over value them, precisely because 
the markets are so big.
21
A Pricing Story?
22
It’s a money loser!
¨There are good arguments to be made against investing in 
Zomato at is proposed offering price, but one of the emptiest, 
and laziest, is that it is losing money. 
¤I know that for some value investors, trained to believe that anything 
that trades at more than 10 or 15 times earnings or at well above book 
value, this argument suffices, but given how badly this argument has 
served them over the last two decades, they should revisit the 
argument. 
¤The biggest reason that Zomato is losing money is because it is a young 
company that is trying to take advantage of a market with immense 
growth potential, not because it cannot make money. 
¨In fact, if Zomato cut back on customer acquisitions and 
platform investments, my guess is that it could show an 
accounting profit, but if it did so, it would be worth a fraction 
of what it is today.
23
Conclusion
¨I believe that the first principles of valuation are the same in all markets, 
and I hope that I have stayed true to that belief in this post. 
¤I valued Zomato, using the same process that I used to value Doordash, with the 
country-specific effects being incorporated into my growth and risk projections. 
¤While I did take issue with some of the holes and over reach in Zomato's 
disclosures, I ran into the same challenges, when I valued Doordash.
¨I believe that while Zomato is a money-losing, cash burning enterprise 
now, it has promise and is on track to delivering a viable business model. 
It will face plenty of challenges on that path, both at the micro level 
(management, competition) and at the macro level (economic and 
political developments in India). 
¨I believe that the company is overpriced, given its potential, but I would 
have no qualms about investing in the stock, if the price drops in the near 
future, with the full understanding that this is a joint wager on a company, 
a sector and a country.
