Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfUGspr16/Session18.pdf

16
Debt	adds	discipline	to	management
Aswath Damodaran
16
¨If	you	are	managers	of	a	firm	with	no	debt,	and	you	
generate	high	income	and	cash	flows	each	year,	you	
tend	to	become	complacent.	The	complacency	can	
lead	to	inefficiency	and	investing	in	poor	projects.	
There	is	little	or	no	cost	borne	by	the	managers	
¨Forcing	such	a	firm	to	borrow	money	can	be	an	
antidote	to	the	complacency.	The	managers	now	
have	to	ensure	that	the	investments	they	make	will	
earn	at	least	enough	return	to	cover	the	interest	
expenses.	The	cost	of	not	doing	so	is	bankruptcy	and	
the	loss	of	such	a	job.
17
Debt	and	Discipline
Aswath Damodaran
17
¨Assume	that	you	buy	into	this	argument	that	debt	adds	
discipline	to	management.	Which	of	the	following	types	
of	companies	will	most	benefit	from	debt	adding	this	
discipline?
a. Conservatively	financed	(very	little	debt),	privately	
owned	businesses
b. Conservatively	financed,	publicly	traded	companies,	
with	stocks	held	by	millions	of	investors,	none	of	whom	
hold	a	large	percent	of	the	stock.
c. Conservatively	financed,	publicly	traded	companies,	
with	an	activist	and	primarily	institutional	holding.
18
Bankruptcy	Cost
Aswath Damodaran
18
¨The	expected	bankruptcy	cost	is	a	function	of	two	variables--
¤the	probability	of	bankruptcy,	which	will	depend	upon	how	uncertain	
you	are	about	future	cash	flows
¤the	cost	of	going	bankrupt
ndirect	costs:	Legal	and	 other	 Deadweight	 Costs
nindirect	 costs:	Costs	 arising	 because	 people	 perceive	 you	to	 be	in	
financial	trouble
¨Proposition	2:	Firms	with	more	volatile	earnings	 and	cash	
flows	will	have	higher	probabilities	of	bankruptcy	at	any	given	
level	of	debt	and	for	any	given	level	of	earnings.
¨Proposition	3:	Other	things	being	equal,	the	greater	the	
indirect	bankruptcy	cost,	the	less	debt	the	firm	can	afford	to	
use	for	any	given	level	of	debt.
19
Debt	&	Bankruptcy	Cost
Aswath Damodaran
19
¨Rank	the	following	companies	on	the	magnitude	of	
bankruptcy	costs	from	most	to	least,	taking	into	
account	both	explicit	and	implicit	costs:
a. A	Grocery	Store
b. An	Airplane	Manufacturer
c. High	Technology	company
20
Agency	Cost
Aswath Damodaran
20
¨An	agency	cost	arises	 whenever	you	 hire	 someone	 else	to	do	 something	
for	you.	It	arises	because	your	interests(as	the	principal)	may	deviate	from	
those	of	the	person	you	hired	(as	the	agent).
¨When	you	lend	money	to	a	business,	you	are	allowing	the	stockholders	to	
use	that	 money	 in	the	course	 of	running	 that	 business.	 Stockholders	
interests	are	different	from	your	interests,	because	
¤You	(as 	lender)	 are	interes ted	in	getting	your	m oney	back
¤Stockholders	are	interested	in	maximizing	their	wealth
¨In	some	cases,	the	clash	of	interests	can	lead	to	stockholders
¤Investing	in	riskier	projects	than	you	would	want	them	to
¤Paying	themselves	large	dividends	when	you	would	rather	have	them	keep	the	cash	
in	the	business.
¨Proposition	4:	Other	things	being	equal,	the	greater	the	agency	problems	
associated	with	lending	to	a	firm,	the	less	debt	the	firm	can	afford	to	use.
21
Debt	and	Agency	Costs
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨Assume	that	you	are	a	bank.	Which	of	the	following	
businesses	would	you	perceive	the	greatest	agency	
costs?
a. A	Technology	firm	
b. A	Large	Regulated	Electric	Utility
c. A	Real	Estate	Corporation
¨Why?
