Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2025.pdf

Change is the only constant!
§If the title sounds familiar, it is because is one of Disney’s most 
iconic rides,  and is a mainstay of every Disney theme park, 
from the original Disneyland in Anaheim to the newer theme 
parks in Paris, Hong Kong and Shanghai. 
§For those of who have never been on it, it is the favored ride for 
anyone who is less than five in your group, since you spend ten 
minutes in a boat going through the world as Disney would like 
you to see it, full of peace, happiness, and goodwill. 
§In this post, I will expand my analysis of data in 2024, which has 
a been mostly US-centric in the first four of my posts, to my 
version of the Disney ride, but on this trip, I have no choice but 
to face the world as is, with all ofthe chaos it includes, with 
tariffs and trade wars looming.
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
§There are two problems with comparing returns in indices. 
§First, they are indices and reflect a subset of stocks in each 
market, with different criteria determining how each index is 
constructed, and varying numbers of constituents. 
§Second, they are in local currencies, and in nominal terms. Thus, 
the 172.52% return in the Mervalbecomes less impressive when 
inflation in Argentina is taken into account. 
§It is for this reason that I chose to compute returns differently, 
using the following constructs:
§I included all publicly traded stocks in each market, or at least 
those with a market capitalization available for them.
§I converted all ofthe market capitalizations into US dollars, just to 
make them comparable.
§I aggregated the market capitalizations of all stocks at the end of 
2023 and the end of 2024, andcomputed the percentage change.
Aswath Damodaran 5
Aswath Damodaran 6
Aswath Damodaran 7
¨Aswath Damodaran ¨9
§If you start with a riskfree rate in a currency where you can 
estimate it (sayUS dollars, Swiss Francs or Euros), all you need to 
estimate a riskfree rate in another currency is the differential 
inflation between the two currencies. 
§Thus, if the US treasury bond rate (4.5%) is the riskfree rate in US 
dollars, and the expected inflation rates in US dollars and Brazilian 
reals are 2.5% and 7.5% respectively, the riskier rate in 
Brazilianreals:
Riskfree rate in $R = (1+ US 10-year T.BondRate) * (1 + Expected 
inflation rate in $R)/ (1+ Expected inflation rate in US $) -1 = 1.045 
*(1.075/1.025) -1 = 9.60%
In approximate terms, this can be written as
Riskfree rate in $R = US 10-year T.BondRate + (Expected inflation 
rate in $R) -Expected inflation rate in US $) -1 = 4.5% -(7.5% -
2.5%) = 9.50%
Aswath Damodaran 10
Aswath Damodaran 11
§Treating the US as default-free is questionable, now that it has 
threatened default multiple times in the last decade and has 
lost its Aaarating with every ratings agency, other than 
Moody’s. 
§That is an easily fixable problem, though, since if you decide to use 
S&P'sAA+ rating for the US, all it would require is that you net out 
the default spread of 0.40% (for aAA+ rating at the start of 2025) 
from the US ERP to get a mature market premium of 3.93% (4.33% 
minus 0.40%). 
§Rating agencies are not always thebest assessors of default 
risk, especially when there are dramatic changes in a country, 
or when they are biased (towards or against a region). 
§That too has a fix, at least for theroughly 80 countries where there 
are trade sovereign CDS spreads, and it can be used instead of the 
ratings-based spreads for those countries.
§I stay with trailing values for net income, revenues and EBITDA, 
because too many of the firms in my 48,000 firm sample have 
no analysts following them, and hence no forward numbers.
§I compute two values for each country (region), an aggregated 
version and the median value. 
§While the latter is simple, i.e., it is the median number across all 
companies in a country or region, the former is calculated across all 
companies, by aggregating the values across companies. 
§Thus, the aggregated PE ratio for the United States is 20.51, and it 
computed by adding up the market capitalizations of all traded US 
stocks and dividing by the sum of the net income earned by all 
traded firms, including money losers. Think of it a weighted-
average PE, with no sampling bias.
§This week has been a rocky one for global markets, and the trigger has 
come from the United States. The tariffs may have been delayed, and 
perhaps may not even come into effect, but it seems, at least to me, a signal 
that globalization, unstoppable for much of the last four decades, has 
crested, and that nationalism, in politics and economics, is reemerging.
§Tariffs have been part of global trade as long as there has been trade, 
and the end game, if tariffs and trade wars become commonplace, may be 
a less vibrant global economy, but as with any major macroeconomic 
policy, there will be winners and losers.
§There is, I am sure, a sense of schadenfreude among people in 
emerging marketsas they watch developed markets start to exhibit the 
behavior (unpredictable government policy, subservient central banks, 
challenging of legal and political norms) that emerging markets were 
critiqued for two decades ago. 
§Before celebrating, it is worth remembering the painful truth that if a large 
developed market (like the US) goes through pain, that pain is magnified 
in emerging markets.
