Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate1.pdf

THE	PROMISE	AND	PERILS	OF	
DATA:	MY	JANUARY	2017	DATA	
UPDATE
Aswath	Damodaran
2
Moneyball,	my	version!
¨ In	Moneyball,	Michael	Lewis	celebrated	the	success	
of	Billy	Beane,	the	general	manager	of	the	Oakland	
As,	who	managed	to	keep	his	team	in	contention	for	
the	World	Series	with	a	barebones	budget	and	a	
reliance	on	numbers.
¨ At	the	start	of	every	year,	for	the	last	25,	I	have	
played	my	version	of	Moneyballwith	financial	data	
and	have	shared	that	data	on	my	website.
¨ For	the	last	three	years,	I	have	also	written	about	
what	I	find	in	that	data	that	may	be	of	use	to	me	in	
corporate	finance	and	valuation.
3
Data	Delusions
1. Numbers	are	precise:	Numbers	are	only	as	precise	as	
the	process	that	delivers	them	and	in	business,	that	
makes	them	imprecise.	
2. Numbers	are	objective:	One	of	the	resentments	that	
number	crunchers	have	about	story	tellers	is	that	the	
latter	indulge	in	flights	of	fancy	and	are	unashamed	
about	bringing	their	biases	into	their	stories	and	
through	them	into	pricing	and	investing.	Numbers	can	
be	just	as	biased	as	stories,	with	the	caveat	that	it	is	
easier	to	hide	biases	with	numbers.	
3. Numbers	put	you	in	control:	It	is	human	nature	to	try	
to	be	in	control	and	numbers	serve	us	well,	in	that	
pursuit.
4
A	Skeptic	on	Big	Data
¨ Data	is	not	information:	Not	all	data	is	created	equal.	Data	
that	is	based	on	what	you	do	is	worth	a	lot	more	than	what	
you	say	will	do.	In	addition,	as	we	collect	and	store	more	
data,	it	is	worth	noting	that	data	is	not	information.	
¨ If	everyone	has	it	(data),	no	one	has	it:	Drawing	on	a	theme	
that	"if	everyone	has	it,	no	one	has	it",	for	data	to	have	value,	
you	have	to	some	degree	of	exclusivity	in	access	to	that	data	
a	proprietary	edge	on	processing	that	data.
¨ Not	all	data	is	actionable:	,	To	convert	that	data	to	profits,	you	
need	to	be	able	to	find	a	way	to	monetize	whatever	data	
edge	you	have	acquired.	For	companies	that	offer	products	
and	services,	this	will	take	the	form	of	modifying	existing	
products/services	or	coming	up	with	new	products/services	
to	what	you	have	learned	from	the	data.
5
Process	Details
1. Data	Gathering:	Raw	data	sources
2. Data	Classification:	Breaking	down	the	data	into	
groupings
3. Data	Analysis:	Metrics	that	are	measured
4. Data	Computation:	Computational	details	can	make	
a	difference
5. Data	Reporting:	Numbers,	Picture	and	Words
6. Data	Access:	Downloading	and	Using
6
1.	Raw	Data
¨ Sources:	I	use	S&amp;P Capital	IQ,	Bloomberg	and	a	host	of	
specialized	services	(Moody's,	PRS	etc.).	
¤ For	company-specific	data,	the	only	criteria	that	I	use	for	including	a	
company	is	that	it	has	to	have	a	non-zero	market	capitalization,	
yielding	a	total	of	42678	firms	in	my	sample	on	January	1,	2017.
¨ Dating	the	Data:	The	data	collected	is	as	of	January	1,	2017,	
but	there	are	differences	in	updating	with	market	and	
accounting	data:
¤ With	market	data	(stock	prices,	market	capitalization	and	interest	
rates)	the	numbers	are	as	of	the	close	of	trading	on	December	31,	
2016.
¤ With	accounting	data,	the	data	reflects	the	most	recent	twelve	
months	(which	would	be	through	September	30,	2016	for	calendar	
year	companies).
2.	Classification
¨ I	break	the	data	down	
into	94	industry	
groupings.
¨ The	industry	groupings	
are	my	own	but	are	
based	upon	S&P	
Capital	IQ	and	Value	
Line	classifications.
8
3.	Key	Numbers
Aswath Damodaran
8
¨ Reflecting	my	corporate	finance	bias,	I	break	the	
company	data	down	into:
¤ Profitability	and	return	measures:
¤ Financial	Leverage	measures:
¤ Dividend	policy	measures:
¨ Given	my	valuation	focus,	I	also	look	at	data	on
¤ Risk	premiums	(for	equity	and	debt)
¤ Risk	parameters
¤ Cash	flow	breakdowns	(working	capital,	capital	expenditures)
¤ Growth	rates	(historical	and	sustainable)
¨ On	pricing,	I	examine	earnings,	book	value	and	revenue	
multiples,	by	industry	group	and	across	geographies.
9
4.	Computational	Details
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨ One	of	the	lessons	that	I	have	learned	from	wrestling	with	the	data	is	that	
computing	even	simple	statistics	requires	making	choices,	which,	in	turn,	
can	be	affected	by	your	biases.	
¨ There	are	two	key	statistical	issues
¤ Sampling	biases:	As	you	compute	values	for	some	metrics,	you	will	start	losing	
some	of	your	sample	and	if	you	lose	enough,	you	have	to	worry	about	biased	
numbers.
¤ Outliers:	As	you	compute	ratios,	you	will	always	get	outliers,	which,	in	turn,	can	
skew	your	averages.
¨ An	example	with	PE	ratios
¤ If	you	compute	the	average	PE	ratio	across	all	companies	with	PE	ratios,	you	lose	
about	half	your	sample	and	you	will	be	bedeviled	with	outliers	even	with	the	rest.
¤ My	solution	is	to	use	aggregated	values	and	my	estimate	of	PE	ratio	for	an	industry	
group	is
PE	=	Aggregate	market	cap	of	all	companies	in	group/	Aggregate	Net	Income	of	all	
companies	in	group
10
5.	Reporting
¨ Company-level	versus	Industry	grouping:	I	don’t	make	the	
company-level	data	accessible,	sensitive	to	my	raw	data	
providers.
¨ Current	data:	You	will	see	the	data	classified	into	risk,	
profitability,	capital	structure	and	dividend	policy	measures,	
reflecting	my	corporate	finance	focus,	and	then	into	pricing	
groups	(earnings	multiples,	book	value	multiples	and	revenue	
multiples).	
¨ Archived	data:	I	also	keep	archived	data	from	prior	years	
(going	back	to	1999)	at	this	link.	Unfortunately,	since	I	have	
had	to	switch	raw	data	providers	multiple	times	in	the	last	20	
years,	the	data	is	not	perfectly	comparable	over	time,	as	both	
industry	groupings	and	data	measures	change	over	time.
11
6.	Data	Access
¨ See	it	online:	You	can	see	the	data	online,	by	clicking	
on	the	appropriate	link,	but	only	for	US	data.
¨ Download	excel	file:	You	can	download	the	data	by	
clicking	on	the	downloadable	links.	You	can	get	the	
data	at	the	global	levels	or	for	any	of	the	five	regions	
(US,	Emerging	Markets,	Developed	Europe,	Japan	
and	the	Rest).	You	can	also	get	the	data	for	India	and	
China.
