Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Splits&Indices.pdf

ILLUSION AND REALITY: STOCK 
SPLITS AND INDEX
IN(EX)CLUSIONS!
Market Domination!
2
A Momentous Day (or not)!
¨ After big market movements, we are eager to look for 
explanations, fundamental reasons why a stock or stocks 
collectively moved on that day, but the reality is that a great deal of 
the price movement on a day-to-day basis has nothing to do with 
earnings, cash flows or risk. 
¨ On August 31, this reality was brought home by two events, neither 
with a strong connection to fundamentals, that represented the 
news of the day and contributed to price movements. 
¤ The first was that two of the highest profile stocks in the market, Apple 
and Tesla, had stock splits that day (August 31), though the market had 
been trading on the expectation of these stock splits, for weeks leading 
into the day. 
¤ On the same day, the Dow 30, a hopelessly flawed, but still among the 
most followed indices in the market, also announced a major reshuffling, 
replacing Exxon Mobil, Pfizer and Raytheon , three of its components, with 
Honeywell, Salesforce and Amgen.
3
Value and Price: Revisiting Basics
• A value-based investor, for instance, believes that value and price can 
diverge, often by large amounts and for long periods, but that the price 
will eventually converge on value, delivering profits to those with the 
patience to hold on to the investment.
• A trader, in contrast, has little interest in value and plays the pricing game, 
gauging momentum and mood shifts to make money, and using liquidity or 
the lack of it to magnify these gains.
• An efficient marketermay agree that the price and value processes can 
diverge, creating gaps, but also believes that investors are incapable of 
finding and taking advantage of the gaps.
4
Value, Gap & Pricing Events
5
Mostly Value Events
¨ When a manufacturing company adds to its production capacity or a 
retailer opens new stores, the effects will almost entirely be on value. 
Since these actions are generally in the normal course of operations for 
these firms, they are unlikely to attract new market attention(which you 
need for gap events) or change market mood and momentum. 
¨ Higher profile actions, though, almost always have spillover effects, and 
here are two examples. 
¤ When Walmart recently announced its intent to partner with Microsoft to buy 
TikTok, there is clearly a value impact that this action will have, costing tens of 
billions in current cash flows, while promising to deliver higher growth and cash 
flows in the future. At the same time, this action, by attracting tech investors to 
buy Walmart, may alter momentum and have a secondary impact on pricing. 
¤ When a California court ruled against ride sharing companies a few weeks ago, on 
the issue of drivers being employees rather than independent contractors, that 
decision had consequences for cost structure and value for Uber and Lyft, but it 
may have induced some investors to revisit the price-value gap.
6
Mostly Gap Events
¨ Gap events can be initiated either by the companies that are being mispriced (or 
at least perceive themselves to be mispriced) or by investors with the same 
perception. In academic finance, these events are termed signals, and while there 
is no guarantee that they will work, the motivation is to try to close the perceived 
gap between price and value. 
¨ The cleanest example is a spin off or a split up, where a multi business 
company spins off one or more of its businesses or splits itself up, with no 
consequential changes in how it is run as a company, but with two objectives. 
¤ One is that the action will expose the disconnect between the underlying fundamentals and 
the pricing, by providing more transparency on cash flows, growth and risk of individual 
businesses. 
¤ The other is that the action will draw investor attention to the company, and that the attention 
can lead to a repricing of the stock. Not all gap events originate with the company. 
¨ When activist investors target a company either as a buy or a short sale, they are 
attempting to provide the catalysts for the pricing gap to close, though their end 
games may involve changing the way the company is run, thus affecting cash 
flows, risk and value.
7
Mostly Pricing Events
¨ With mostly pricing events, the end game is altering 
mood and momentum or changing the liquidity in the 
stock, and by doing so, affecting the pricing of a stock. 
¨ An emerging market company that lists its shares on a 
more liquid, developed market exchange, for instance, 
has clearly not altered its fundamentals through that 
action. There is no value effect, but 
¤ It may benefit from higher liquidity pushing up price. 
¤ There can be spillover effects from increased information 
disclosure, perhaps helping to close gaps between price and 
value, and perhaps even greater access to capital, allowing for a 
value effect.
8
Buybacks: Who and Why?
¨ There are some events that can fall into any of the three 
buckets, depending upon who initiates the event and how 
the market views the initiator . 
¨ Stock buybacks are perhaps the best example, since there are 
arguments you can make for buybacks to be value, gap or 
pricing events.
¤ If companies buy back stock, using borrowed money, the intent is to 
change value byaltering the financing mixand cost of capital.
¤ In contrast, if companies buy back stock, butonly if they perceive their 
shares to be under valued, the buyback becomes a gap event, focused 
on moving prices up to intrinsic value.
¤ Finally, if companies buy back stock to feed pricing momentum or to 
provide a floor to the price, buybacks are primarily pricing events.
Stock Splits: The Evidence
¨ In the decades since, there 
have been dozens of studies 
and while they generally find 
that split announcements are 
accompanied by small stock 
price increases, they disagree 
on the reasons. 
¨ Some argue that it is because 
of post-split changes in 
liquidity, some posit that it is 
because splits operate as 
signals and some claim that 
they change value.
10
Stock Splits: The Value Effect
¨ A stock split or dividend is a purely cosmetic action, and 
the analogy that I would offer is that a pizza, sliced into 
six pieces, will not taste better and nor will there be 
more of it, if it sliced into twelve pieces. 
¨ Neither Tesla nor Apple become more valuable 
companies, because of their stock splits, because 
nothing fundamental has changed in either company, as 
a consequence of the split. 
¨ In short, if you thought Apple was overvalued on August 
30, trading at $500/share, you would still find it 
overvalued trading at $125/share, after a four for one 
stock split, since both price and value will be a fourth of 
what they were the prior day
11
Stock Splits: The Gap Effect
¨ There is an argument to be made that stock splits can operate 
as gap events, especially if a company is lightly followed and 
little attention is being paid to it, leading it to be under 
valued. 
¨ The split, while just cosmetic, can bring the company (at least 
briefly) into the news and that attention may be sufficient to 
causing the gap to close, by pushing the price towards value 
(which remains unchanged). 
¨ This argument does not hold for Apple, the most highly 
valued company in the world, and Tesla, a company that 
clearly has never had a problem with attention seeking, but it 
could be used by a company like Marten Transport, which 
announced a 3 for 2 split on July 17, 2020, after seeing its 
stock price stagnate for a three year period.
12
Stock Split: The Pricing Effect
¨ Liquidity: With high priced stocks, the argument that stock 
splits reduce transactions costs and increase liquidity had 
more resonance in the past when trading shares in less than 
round lots often cost substantially more than in odd numbers. 
In addition, an argument can be made that when share prices 
reach really high levels, some investors will be shut out of the 
stock, because they cannot afford to buy any shares in it, 
round lot or not. Here, a stock split, by bringing the price 
down to more affordable levels expands its investor base, and 
by doing so, its stock price. 
¨ Momentum feed: Stock splits feed momentum that is already 
prevalent in the stock, perhaps because of the perception 
that lower priced shares (even if there are more of them out 
there) just seem cheaper to investors.
13
Index Inclusions (and Exclusions): The Evidence
¨ Positive or negative : The consensus view across studies is that a company that is 
added to (removed from) the S&P 500 sees its stock price increase (decrease) 
modestly, and that the change is permanent. There are two caveats. 
¤ The first is that this increase may be more a consequence of the circumstances 
that led to the the company being added on to the index than the index 
addition. This paper, for instance, looked at a matched sample, where 
companies added to the index were paired with companies with similar 
characteristics (high momentum, rising earnings etc.) that were not added to 
the index and concluded that there was no index addition effect. 
¤ The second is that there seems to be some evidence that the index effect has 
become smaller over time , rather than larger, even as passive investing has 
become a larger part of the index.
¨ Volatility and variance : There is some evidence that a stocks that get added to the 
index see increased price volatility , as institutions become bigger players, and 
move more with the index , for the obvious reason that they are now part of it.
14
Index Inclusions (and Exclusions): The Value 
Effect
¨ As with stock splits, it is difficult to make an argument 
that index inclusion or exclusion changes value, but 
there is a possible, albeit unlikely, path. 
¨ When a company becomes part of a widely followed and 
tracked index like the S&P 500, its investor base will 
change to become more institutional and more passive. 
¤ You can argue that these investors bring very different 
preferences for risk, investing, capital structure and cash return 
than investors in the rest of the market. 
¤ For instance, a study documents that companies that become 
part of the S&P 500 tend to behave more like their peer group 
and take lower return investments, after the index inclusion 
than before the inclusion, and this can affect value adversely.
15
Index Inclusions (and Exclusions): The Gap Effect
¨ There is no index that looks at how much a company 
is under or over valued in making a judgment on 
whether to include it. 
¨ That said, though, companies that get added on to 
the index tend to be companies whose stock prices 
have done better in the period prior to that add 
on, than the companies removed from it were doing 
prior to their removal. 
¨ For some contrarians, the act of being included in an 
index may therefore be a signal that the stock price 
has outrun value.
16
Index Inclusions (and Exclusions): The Pricing 
Effect
¨ Index inclusion can increase the investor base for a company, by drawing in 
investors who invest only in that index (like index funds) or primarily in the index 
(like many large active institutional investors), and that increase should play out in 
a jump in stock prices on the stock. 
¨ The effect, though, will vary depending upon the company in question and the 
index on which it is listed. 
¤ The Dow 30 may be widely followed index, but it is not an index fund favorite or even one that 
institutional investors use to track their returns. 
¤ In contrast, when ServiceNow was added to the S&P 500, its stock price climbed 4%, reflecting 
both the company's status (low profile, not widely followed) and the S&P 500's standing as an 
index. 
¨ I know that many Tesla bulls are awaiting its inclusion in the S&P 500, and with 
the full recognition that I will be wrong in hindsight, there is nothing that leads me 
to be believe that it will be a game changer for the company. In fact, you could 
argue that this company's rise in market capitalization has come from individual 
investors with strong views on the company, and that the investors that may be 
drawn to the company post -index-inclusion may not be in sync with the 
company's business practices.
17
What now?
¨ If you are an investor, nothing that happened on August 31 should alter 
your views on the company. In other words, if you believed that Tesla and 
Apple were (under) over valued on August 30, 2020, you will continue to 
do so on August 31.
¨ If you believe that one or both of these stocks is under or over valued, 
and you are hoping that the stock splits will close the gap, I am afraid that 
you are disappointed. These are among the most widely followed stocks 
in the world and stock splits are not going to cause neglected details to 
come to the surface.
¨ However, if you are a trader and you play the momentum game, this is 
your moment of maximum pain and gain. 
¤ It is conceivable, and perhaps even likely, that the split will keep the momentum 
going for the near term, and that you can take advantage by buying today and 
holding for a period. 
¤ The problem with momentum is that it is fickle and for those who bought the stock 
expecting the stock split to be their big payday, if the results fall short of 
expectations, there will be disappointment.
