Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/countryrisk2026.pdf

Yo u  c an  r u n , bu t yo u  c an n o t h id e !
2
§I am a creature of habit in both my personal and professional lives, 
and in the context of the content that I post online, there is a ritual 
that I follow with my data updates that I stick with every year. 
§I start the year with mygeneral data update online, andfollow up 
with a series of posts where I examine the implications for 
investing and corporate finance. 
§Since 2008, I have also done annual updates on equity risk 
premiums in March of each year, withthe link to the 2026 update 
here, and country risk in July of each year, where I look at the 
topics in more details, paying attention to newer research on each 
topic. 
§This year's country risk update isnow available,and as in prior 
years, I will spend this post looking what causes risk to vary across 
countries, how to measure those risk variations and the 
implications for businesses and investors.
3
§In my business school years, country risk was given short 
shrift, reflecting a dollar-. For those who raised it as an issue, 
the response was that you could, as a company or investor with 
global exposure, diversify it away. 
§For businesses, the exposure to country risk comes from both the 
revenue side, as larger portions of every company's revenues 
come from foreign markets, and the cost side, as production 
gets outsourced to cheaper locales overseas. 
§For investors, the initial draw of investing in foreign markets might 
have been diversificationbut the greater pull has come from 
greed, i.e., the belief that you can higher returns in the rest of 
the world. 
§At the risk of being hyperbolic, there is no place to hide from 
country risk, for either businesses or investors, and 
ignoring or dismissing country risk is not an option.
4
§I don't think that there would be much disagreement, if I assert 
that it is riskier to invest in some parts of the world than 
others, but there is likely to be plenty of disagreement on why 
there are risk differences and which parts of the world are 
riskiest. 
§In the broadest sense, I have argued that variation in business 
risk across countries can be traced to four factors 
§the political structure of the country (democracy vs authoritarian), 
§the prevalence of corruptionin the country (operating as a hidden 
tax and distorting business outcomes)
§the extent of violence in the country (from internal and external 
forces) 
§the strength of the legal system in enforcing contractual 
obligations.
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
§I started estimating country equity risk premiums, and while 
the details and data that I use have changed over the last three 
decades, the basic structure has remained unchanged. 
§I start with an estimate of the equity risk premium for a mature 
market, and build a country risk premium, if needed, for riskier 
countries.
§Until 2025, I estimated the mature market premium by computing an 
implied equity risk premium for the S&P 500, and using that as the 
base, arguing that the US, as a Aaarated country (at least according 
to Moody's), represented a mature market. 
§The Moody's downgrade for the US, from Aaato Aa1, has thrown a 
wrench into that approach, requiring adaptation.
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
§For a multinational is many businesses, the project cost of 
equity will have to then also reflect the business the project is 
in, in addition to country risk. 
§Thus, the cost of equity for a GE Appliances for a project in India 
should reflect the beta for the appliance business, in addition to the 
country risk for India. 
§In contrast, a GE aircraft project in Hungary should be computed 
using the beta for an aircraft project and the country risk for 
Hungary. It is also possible that country risk is not easy to isolate, if 
the production facilities are in one country but revenues are 
generated in another. 
§If the GE appliance factory in India will be producing products that 
will be sold in Japan, should we be showing the country risk of India 
or Japan in the cost of equity calculation? The answer, as was the 
case in the earlier section on valuation, is that it depends on where 
the company sees risk coming from.
23
§For some of you, it may seem odd that I have spent almost an 
entire post talking about country risk without talking about 
currencies. 
§The reason is simple. Currencies are measurement 
mechanisms, and while they may be affected by the same 
political and economic factors that drive country risk, they 
don't determine country risk. 
§It is true that hurdle rates are affected by both the equity risk 
premiums that you estimate and the riskfree rate that you use, 
and that riskfree rates vary across currencies.
24
25
§While this may sound farfetched, the value that you derive for 
the project or company should be the same using either 
currency, if you are consistent about estimating your cash flows 
in the same currency:
§Since much or almost all ofthe difference in riskfree rates 
come from inflation differentials, matching the high discount 
rate in a currency with high inflation with a high growth in 
cashflows for the same reason and the low discount rate in a 
low inflation currency with the low growth in cashflows 
estimated in the same currency will yield results that are 
consistent.
26
§The riskfree rate in any currency can be computed from a base 
currency (dollar or Euro) riskfree rate and the difference in 
expected inflation between the local and base currencies:
§The implication of this approach is that currency pegs, when 
they do exist, will hold only if the inflation in the pegged 
currency matches or is close to the inflation in the index 
currency to which it is pegged. 
§It is true that the estimates of riskfree rates will only be as good 
as the expected inflation rates that are embedded in the 
estimation, but the good news is that being wrong on expected 
inflation will be largely offsetting, since both your cashflows 
and your discount rates will be wrong in the same direction.
27
§In my posts on globalization, I talked about the side costs of its 
rise in the last few decades. One of the side costs is that there 
are fewer companies that are entirely local-country focused in 
both their revenues and production, and as a result, almost 
every business and investor is exposed to risk in other parts of 
the world.
§The problem with country risk is that while its consequences 
are economic, it has its sources in history, politics and 
governance structures. The measures of country risk, whether 
they be entity-based like sovereign ratings, or market 
estimates like sovereign CDS spreads, reflect this interplay.
§My equity risk premiums are works-in-progress and reflect 
simplistic assumptions and short cuts that I have taken, and I am 
open to suggestions on improvements that I can make.
