Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/VCPricing.pdf

VENTURE	CAPITAL:	IT’S	A	
PRICING,	NOT	A	VALUE,	GAME!
The	Core	VC	Competitive	Advantage?
2
The	WSJ	headline..
3
And	the	Scott	Kupor response..
¨ Realized	versus	Unrealized	Returns
Unlike	investments	in	public	equities,	where	the	unrealized	
returns	are	based	upon	observed	market	prices	for	traded	
stocks	and	can	be	converted	to	realized	returns	relatively	
painlessly,	Unrealized	returns	 at	venture	capital	funds	are	based	
upon	estimates	and	that	these	estimates	are	themselves	based	
upon	opaque	VC	investments	in	other	companies	in	the	space	
and	not	easily	monetized.	
¨ Potential	noise	and	bias
Implicitly,	he	seemed	to	be	saying	that	not	only	are	unrealized	
returns	at	VC	funds	subject	to	estimation	error,	but	also	to	bias,	
and	should	thus	be	viewed	as	softer	than	realized	returns.
4
Price	versus	Value
5
VC	Pricing	Approaches
¨ Recent	pricing	of	the	same	company:	Pricing	is	based	on	what	
VCs	paid	for	the	company	(and	priced	it	at)	in	the	most	recent	
venture	capital	round
¨ Pricing	of	similar	private	companies:	Look	at	what	investors	
are	paying	for	similar	companies	in	the	“same	space”	(with	all	
of	the	subjective	judgments	of	what	comprises	“similar”	and	
“same	space”),	scale	this	price	to	revenues,	or	lacking	that,	a	
common	metric	for	that	space,	and	price	your	company.	
¨ Pricing	of	public	companies:	In	the	rare	cases	where	a	private	
business	has	enough	operating	substance	today,	in	the	form	
of	revenues	or	even	earnings,	in	a	space	where	there	are	
public	companies,	you	could	use	the	pricing	of	public	
companies	as	your	basis	for	pricing	private	businesses.
6
And	a	forward	variant
7
The	VC	Pricing	Problem	is	statistical..
¨ Small	Samples:	If	your	pricing	is	based	upon	other	private	
company	investments,	your	sample	sizes	will	tend	to	be	much	
smaller,	if	you	are	a	VC	than	if	you	a	public	company	investor .	
¨ With	Infrequent	Updating:	Private	company	transactions	are	
few	and	far	between.	In	many	ways,	the	VC	pricing	problem	is	
closer	to	the	real	estate	pricing	than	conventional	stock	
pricing.
¨ And	Opaque	transactions:	Unlike	public	equities,	where	a	
share	of	stock	is	(for	the	most	part)	like	any	other	share	of	
stock	and	the	total	market	value	is	the	share	price	times	
number	of	shares	outstanding,	extrapolating	from	a	VC	
investment	for	a	share	in	a	company	to	the	overall	value	of	
equity	can	be	and	often	is	complicated.
8
With	predictable	consequences
¨ More	error:		The	pricing	that	I	obtain	 will	have	a	larger	band	around	the	
estimate	and	there	is	a	greater	chance	that	I	will	be	wrong.
¨ More	bias:	The	pricing	will	be	more	subjective,	since	you	have	the	
freedom	to	choose	your	comparable	firms	and	often	can	use	discretion	to	
adjust	for	the	infrequent	data	updating	and	the	complexity	of	equity	
investments.	
¨ The	pricing	will	lag	the	market :	When	transactions	slow	down,	and	 VCs	
hold	off	on	full	repricing	until	transactions	pick	up	again,	there	can	be	a	
significant	lag	between	when	prices	drop	at	young	companies	and	those	
price	drops	getting	reflected	in	returns	at	VC	firms.
¨ There	is	a	price	feedback	loop :	One	badly	priced	transaction	(in	either	
direction)	can	trigger	many	more	badly	priced	transactions.
¨ And	a	time	horizon	issue :	Winning	at	the	VC	pricing	game	may	require	
that	you	take	a	position	in	a	young	start	up	and	bide	your	time	until	you	
build	it	up	and	find	someone	who	will	find	it	attractive	enough	to	offer	
you	a	much	higher	price	for	it.
9
In	spite	(or	because)	of	the	pricing	
problems,	VCs	seem	to	outperform..
10
And	elite	VCs	stay	elite…
¨ The	most	successful	VCs	not	only	earn	higher	returns	
than	the	top	public	market	investors	but	that	there	
seems	to	be	more	consistency	in	the	VC	business,	
insofar	as	the	best	of	the	VCs	are	able	to	generate	
higher	returns	across	longer	time	periods.
¨ That	would	suggest	that	venture	capitalists	bring	
more	durable	competitive	advantages	to	the	
investing	game	than	public	market	investors.
11
Perhaps	using	these	competitive	
advantages..
¨ They	are	better	pricers(relatively):	While	all	of	VC	prices	are	
undoubtedly	wrong	(because	they	are	estimates),	some	of	
them	are	less	wrong	than	others.	You	just	have	to	be	less	
wrong	than	everyone	else	and	the	chances	of	you	doing	that	
are	greater	in	the	VC	pricing	game.
¨ They	can	influence	the	pricing	game:	VCs	can	take	a	more	
active	role	in	the	companies	that	they	invest	in,	from	
informally	advising	managers	to	more	formal	roles	as	board	
members,	helping	these	companies	decide	what	metrics	to	
focus	on,	how	to	improve	these	metrics	and	how	(and	when)	
to	cash	in	on	them	(from	an	IPO	or	a	sale).
¨ They	have	better	timing:	To	be	successful,	you	not	only	have	
to	time	your	entry	into	a	business	right	but	even	more	
critically,	time	your	exit	from	it.
