Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr23/session3slides.pdf

20
Application Test: Who’s on board?
Aswath Damodaran
20
¨Look at the board of directors for your firm. 
¤How many of the directors are inside directors (Employees of the firm, 
ex-managers)?
¤Is there any information on how independent the directors in the firm 
are from the managers?   
¨Are there any external measures of the quality of corporate 
governance of your firm?
¤Yahoo! Finance now reports on a corporate governance score for firms, 
where it ranks firms against the rest of the market and against their 
sectors.
¨Is there tangible evidence that your board acts independently 
of management?
¤Check news stories to see if there are actions that the CEO has wanted 
to take that the board has stopped him or her from taking or at least 
slowed him or her down.
21
So, what next? When the cat is idle, the mice 
will play ....
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨When managers do not fear stockholders, they will often put 
their interests over stockholder interests
¤Greenmail: The (managers of ) target of a hostile takeover buy out the 
potential acquirer's existing stake, at a price much greater than the 
price paid by the raider, in return for the signing of a 'standstill' 
agreement.
¤Golden Parachutes: Provisions in employment contracts, that allows 
for the payment of a lump-sum or cash flows over a period, if 
managers covered by these contracts lose their jobs in a takeover. 
¤Poison Pills: A security,  the rights or cashflows on which are triggered 
by an outside event, generally a hostile takeover, is called a poison pill.
¤Shark Repellents: Anti-takeover amendments are also aimed at 
dissuading hostile takeovers but differ on one very important count. 
They require the assent of stockholders to be instituted. 
¤Overpaying on takeovers: Acquisitions often are driven by 
management interests rather than stockholder interests.
No stockholder approvalneeded….. Stockholder Approval needed
22
Managerial Self Interest or Stockholder 
Wealth? Overpaying on takeovers!
Aswath Damodaran
22
¨The quickest and perhaps the most decisive way to 
impoverish stockholders is to overpay on a takeover .
¨The stockholders in acquiring firms do not seem to share 
the enthusiasm of the managers in these firms. Stock 
prices of bidding firms decline on the takeover 
announcements a significant proportion  of the time. 
¨Many mergers do not work, as evidenced by a number of
measures:
¤The profitabilityof merged firms relative to their peer groups, 
does not increaseafter mergers.
¤An even more damning indictment is that a large number of
mergers are reversed within a few years, which is a clear 
admission that the acquisitions did not work.
A case study in value destruction:
Eastman Kodak & Sterling Drugs
Kodak enters bidding war
¨In late 1987, Eastman Kodak 
entered intoa bidding war with 
Hoffman La Roche for Sterling 
Drugs, a pharmaceutical 
company. 
¨The bidding war started with 
Sterling Drugs trading at about 
$40/share.
¨At $72/share, Hoffman dropped 
out of the bidding war, but Kodak 
kept bidding.
¨At $89.50/share, Kodak won and 
claimed potential synergies 
explained the premium.
Kodak wins!!!!
!
24
Earnings and Revenues at Sterling Drugs 
Aswath Damodaran
24
Sterling Drug under Eastman Kodak: Where is the synergy?
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992
Revenue Operating Earnings
25
Kodak Says Drug Unit Is Not for Sale … but…
Aswath Damodaran
25
¨ An article in the NY Times in August of 1993 suggested that Kodak was eager to 
shed its drug unit.
¤ In response, Eastman Kodak officials say they have no plans to sell Kodak’s Sterling Winthrop 
drug unit.
¤ Louis Mattis, Chairman of Sterling Winthrop, dismissed the rumors as “massive speculation, 
which flies in the face of the stated intent of Kodak that it is committed to be in the health 
business.”
¨ A few months later…Taking a stride out of the drug business, Eastman Kodak said 
that the Sanofi Group, a French pharmaceutical company, agreed to buy the 
prescription drug business of Sterling Winthrop for $1.68 billion.     
¤ Shares of Eastman Kodak rose 75 cents yesterday, closing at $47.50 on the New York Stock 
Exchange.   
¤ Samuel D. Isaly an analyst , said the announcement was “very good for Sanofi and very good 
for Kodak.”
¤ “When the divestitures are complete, Kodak will be entirely focused on imaging,”said George 
M. C. Fisher , the company's chief executive. 
¤ The rest of the Sterling Winthrop was sold to Smithkline for $2.9 billion.
26
Application Test: Who owns/runs your firm?
Aswath Damodaran
26
¨Look at: Bloomberg printout HDS for your firm
¨Who are the top stockholders in your firm?
¨What are the potential conflicts of interests that you see 
emerging from this stockholding structure?
Control of the firm
Outside stockholders
- Size of holding
- Active or Passive?
- Short or Long term?
Inside stockholders
% of stock held
Voting and non-voting shares
Control structure
Managers
- Length of tenure
- Links to insiders
Government
Employees Lenders
27
Case 1: Splintering of Stockholders
Disney’s top stockholders in 2003
Aswath Damodaran
28
Case 2: Voting versus Non-voting Shares & 
Golden Shares:  Vale
Vale Equity
Common (voting) shares
3,172 million
Preferred (non-voting)
1,933 million
Golden (veto) 
shares owned 
by Brazilian govt
Valespar(
54%(Non/Brazilian(
(ADR&Bovespa)(
29%(
Brazilian(Ins=tu=onal(
6%(
Brazilian(retail(
5%( Brazilian(
Govt.(
6%(
Valespar(
1%(
Non.Brazilian(
(ADR&Bovespa)(
59%(
Brazilian(Ins<tu<onal(
18%(
Brazilian(retail(
18%(
Brazilian(Govt.(
4%(
Litel&Participaço 49.00%
Eletron&S.A. 0.03%
Bradespar&S.A. 21.21%
Mitsui&&&Co. 18.24%
BNDESPAR 11.51%
Valespar(ownership
Va l e  h a s  e l e v e n  m e m b e r s  o n  i t s  b o a r d  o f  d i r e c t o r s ,  t e n  o f  
whom were nominated by Va l e s p a rand the board was 
chaired by Don Conrado, the CEO of Va l e p a r. Aswath Damodaran
29
Case 3: Cross and Pyramid Holdings
Tata Motor’s top stockholders in 2013 
Aswath Damodaran
30
But it is a benevolent family!
Aswath Damodaran
31
Case 4: Legal rights and Corporate 
Structures: Baidu
¨The Board: The company has six directors, one of whom is Robin Li, 
who is the founder/CEO of Baidu. Mr . Li also owns a majority stake 
of Class B shares, which have ten times the voting rights of Class A 
shares, granting him effective control of the company. 
¨The structure: Baidu is a Chinese company, but it is incorporated in 
the Cayman Islands, its primary stock listing is on the NASDAQ and 
the listed company is structured as a shell company, to get around 
Chinese government restrictions of foreign investors holding shares 
in Chinese corporations. 
¨The legal system: Baidu’s operating counterpart in China is 
structured as a Variable Interest Entity (VIE), and it is unclear how 
much legal power the shareholders in the shell company have to
enforce changes at the VIE.
Aswath Damodaran
32
Things change.. Disney’s top stockholders in 2009
Aswath Damodaran
32
33
II. Stockholders' objectives vs. Bondholders' 
objectives
Aswath Damodaran
33
¨In theory:  there is no conflict of interests between 
stockholders and bondholders.
¨In practice: Stockholder and bondholders have 
different objectives. Bondholders are concerned 
most about safety and ensuring that they get paid 
their claims. Stockholders are more likely to think 
about upside potential
34
Examples of the conflict..
Aswath Damodaran
34
¨A dividend/buyback surge: When firms pay cash out as 
dividends, lenders to the firm are hurt and stockholders 
may be helped. This is because the firm becomes riskier 
without the cash.
¨Risk shifting: When a firm takes riskier projects than 
those agreed to at the outset, lenders are hurt. Lenders 
base interest rates on their perceptions of how risky a 
firm’s investments are. If stockholders then take on 
riskier investments, lenders will be hurt.
¨Borrowing more on the same assets: If lenders do not 
protect themselves, a firm can borrow more money and 
make all existing lenders worse off.
35
An Extreme Example: Unprotected Lenders?
Aswath Damodaran
35
36
III. Firms and Financial Markets
Aswath Damodaran
36
¨In theory:  Financial markets are efficient. Managers 
convey information honestly and and in a timely manner 
to financial markets, and financial markets make 
reasoned judgments of the effects of this information on 
'true value'. As a consequence-
¤A company that invests in good long-term projects will be 
rewarded.
¤Short term accounting gimmicks will not lead to increases in 
market value.
¤Stock price performance is a  good measure of company 
performance. 
¨In practice:  There are some holes in the 'Efficient 
Markets' assumption.
37
Managers control the release of information to 
the general public
Aswath Damodaran
37
¨Information management (timing and spin): 
Information (especially negative) is sometimes 
suppressed or delayed by managers seeking a better 
time to release it. When the information is released, 
firms find ways to “spin” or “frame” it to put 
themselves in the best possible light.
¨Outright fraud: In some cases, firms release 
intentionally misleading information about their 
current conditions and future prospectsto financial 
markets.
38
Evidence that managers delay bad news?
Aswath Damodaran
38
DO MANAGERS DELAY BAD NEWS?: EPS and DPS Changes- by
Weekday
-6.00%
-4.00%
-2.00%
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
Monday Tuesday WednesdayThursday Friday
% Chg(EPS) % Chg(DPS)
39
Some critiques of market efficiency.. 
Aswath Damodaran
39
¨Investor irrationality: The base argument is that investors 
are irrational, and prices often move for no reason at all. 
As a consequence, prices are much more volatile than 
justified by the underlying fundamentals. Earnings and 
dividends are much less volatile than stock prices.
¨Manifestations of irrationality
¨Reaction to news: Some believe that investors overreact to 
news, both good and bad. Others believe that investors 
sometimes under react to big news stories.
¨An insider conspiracy: Financial markets are manipulated by 
insiders; Prices do not have any relationship to value.
¨Short termism: Investors are short-sighted, and do not consider 
the long-term implications of actions taken by the firm
40
Are markets short sighted and too focused 
on the near term? What do you think?
Aswath Damodaran
40
¨Focusing on market prices will lead companies towards short term 
decisions at the expense of long-term value.
a. I agree with the statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
¨Allowing managers to make decisions without having to worry 
about the effect on market prices will lead to better long term
decisions.
a. I agree with this statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
¨Neither managers nor markets are trustworthy. Regulations/laws 
should be written that force firms to make long term decisions.
a. I agree with this statement
b. I do not agree with this statement
41
Are markets short term? Some counter (albeit 
not conclusive) evidence that they are not..
Aswath Damodaran
41
¨Value of young firms: There are hundreds of start-up and 
small firms, with no earnings expected in the near future, 
that raise money on financial markets. Why would a myopic 
market that cares only about short-term earnings attach high 
prices to these firms?
¨Current earnings vsFuture growth: If the evidence suggests 
anything, it is that markets do not value current earnings and 
cashflows enough and value future earnings and cashflows 
too much. After all, studies suggest that low PE stocks are 
under priced relative to high PE stocks
¨Market reaction to investments: The market response to 
research and development and investment expenditures is 
generally positive.
42
If markets are so short term, why do they react to big 
investments (that potentially lower short termearnings) so 
positively?
Aswath Damodaran
42
43
But what about market crises?
Aswath Damodaran
43
¨Markets are the problem: Many critics of markets point to market 
bubbles and crises as evidence that markets do not work. For 
instance, the market turmoil between September and December 
2008 is pointed to as backing for the statement that free markets 
are the source of the problem and not the solution.
¨The counter: There are two counter arguments that can be offered:
¤The 2008 crisis illustrates that we are more dependent on functioning, 
liquid markets, with risk taking investors, than ever before in history. As we 
saw, no government or other entity (bank, Buffett) was big enough to step 
in and save the day.
¤The firms that caused the market collapse (banks, investment banks) were 
among the most regulated businesses in the marketplace. If anything, 
their failures can be traced to their attempts to take advantage of 
regulatory loopholes (badly designed insurance programs… capital 
measurements that miss risky assets, especially derivatives)
44
IV . Firms and Society
Aswath Damodaran
44
¨In theory:   All costs and benefits associated with a 
firm’s decisions can be traced back to the firm.
¨In practice:  Financial decisions can create social costs 
and benefits.
¤A social cost or benefit is a cost or benefit that accrues to society 
as a whole and not to the firm making the decision. 
nEnvironmental costs (pollution, health costs, etc..)
nQuality of Life' costs (traffic, housing, safety, etc.)
¤Examples of social benefits include:
ncreating employment in areas with high unemployment
nsupporting development in inner cities 
ncreating access to goods in areas where such access does not 
exist
45
Social Costs and Benefits are difficult to quantify 
because ..
Aswath Damodaran
45
¨Cannot know the unknown: They might not be known at 
the time of the decision. In other words, a firm may 
think that it is delivering a product that enhances 
society, at the time it delivers the product but discover 
afterwards that there are very large costs. (Asbestos was 
a wonderful product, when it was devised, light and easy 
to work with… It is only after decades that the health 
consequences came to light)
¨Eyes of the beholder: They are ‘person-specific’ , since 
different decision makers can look at the same social 
cost and weight them very differently. 
¨Decision paralysis: They can be paralyzing if carried to 
extremes.
