Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfexams/CfQuiz1aSpr20.pdf

Spring 2020 Name: 
 1 
Quiz 1: Corporate Finance 
Answer all questions and show necessary work. Please be brief. This is an open books, 
open notes exam.  
1. Corporate Governance/Risk Basics section.  
Each of the following multiple-choice questions is worth ½ point. Please pick only 
one answer for each question. 
a. For corporate governance to work, you need an effective board of directors. 
Which of the following would you look for as the best indication of an 
effective board? 
i. A board of long-tenured directors 
ii. A board of directors with expertise in the business of the company. 
iii. A board of directors with no conflicts of interest with management 
iv. A board of directors that has overridden management (and the CEO) 
on key decisions.  
v. A board of directors with diverse backgrounds and interests. 
b. One proposal that has been floated to make companies behave in a more long-
term way is to restrict voting at annual meetings only to shareholders who 
have held shares for more than a year. What effect do you think this restriction 
will have on shareholder and managerial power? 
i. It will increase shareholder power and decrease managerial power 
ii. It will decrease shareholder power and increase managerial power 
iii. It will have no effect on the power of either shareholders or managers. 
c. Assume that you believe that markets are efficient. In efficient markets, which 
of the following would you expect to observe? 
i. Investors in well managed (good) companies should expect to earn 
higher returns than investors in badly managed firms, after adjusting 
for risk. 
ii. Investors in badly managed (bad) companies should expect to earn 
higher returns than investors in well managed firms, after adjusting for 
risk. 
iii. Investors in both well managed and badly managed firms should 
expect to earn the same returns, after adjusting for risk. 
d. A portfolio of 50 small cap, volatile stocks will always have a higher standard 
deviation than a portfolio of 50 large cap, more stable stocks. 
i. True 
ii. False
Spring 2020 Name: 
 2 
2. Zona Hotels is a Latin American hotel company that derives 75% of its revenues 
in Brazil and 25% in Argentina and you have collected the following information 
on the countries: 
  US $ 10-year bond rate Local Currency 10-year bond rate 
Brazil 3.50% 7.50% 
Argentina 8.50% 12.50% 
If the risk free rate in US dollars is 1.50% and the equity risk premium in the US 
(a mature market) is 5%, estimate the cost of equity for Zona in Brazilian Reais. 
(The beta for Zona is 1.20 and equity is 1.30 times more volatile than the 
government bonds in emerging markets).    (3 points)
Spring 2020 Name: 
 3 
3. You have run a regression for Ronan Chemicals, using stock price data from the 
last 2 years and arrived at the following: 
Return Ronan = 0.25% + 1.035 Returns S&P 500 
During the two years (used in the regression), Ronan Chemicals had an average 
debt to equity ratio of 20% and faced a marginal tax rate of 25%. While the 
marginal tax rate is still 25%, Ronan Chemicals currently has a market 
capitalization of $1,500 million and total debt outstanding of $1,000 million. 
Starting with the regression beta, estimate the correct beta for the firm, given its 
changed financial leverage.      (2 points)
Spring 2020 Name: 
 4 
4. CressKill Autos is an automobile company in two businesses, automobiles and 
energy, and you have been given the breakdown of the two businesses below: 
  Revenue ($ millions) EV/Sales Unlevered Beta 
Autos  $                3,000.00  1.00 0.9 
Energy  $                2,000.00  3.00 0.6 
If CressKill has $3,000 million in debt outstanding, estimate the levered beta for 
the company. (The marginal tax rate is 25%)   (3 points)
