Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfUGspr16/Session16a.pdf

CORPORATE	FINANCE
LECTURE	NOTE	PACKET	2
CAPITAL	STRUCTURE,	DIVIDEND	
POLICY	AND	VALUATION
Aswath	Damodaran Spring	2016
Aswath Damodaran 1
CAPITAL	STRUCTURE:	THE	
CHOICES	AND	THE	TRADE	OFF
“Neither	a	borrower	nor	a	lender	be”
Someone	who	obviously	hated	this	part	of	corporate	finance
Aswath Damodaran 2
3
First	principles
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
The	Choices	in	Financing
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨There	are	only	two	ways	in	which	a	business	can	raise	money.	
¤The	first	is	debt.	The	essence	of	debt	is	that	you	promise	to	make	fixed	
payments	 in	 the	future	 (interest	 payments	 and	 repaying	 principal).	 If	
you	fail	to	make	those	payments,	you	lose	control	of	your	business.
¤The	other	is	equity.	With	equity,	you	do	get	whatever	cash	flows	are	
left	over	after	 you	have	 made	 debt	 payments.
5
Global	Patterns	in	Financing…
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
And	a	much	greater	dependence	 on	bank	loans	
outside	the	US…
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Assessing	the	existing	financing	choices:	Disney,	
Vale,	Tata	Motors,	Baidu&	Bookscape
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
9
The	Transitional	Phases..
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨The	transitions	that	we	see	at	firms	–from	fully	owned	
private	businesses	to	venture	capital,	from	private	to	public	
and	subsequent	seasoned	offerings	are	all	motivated	
primarily	by	the	need	for	capital.	
¨In	each	transition,	though,	there	are	costs	incurred	by	the	
existing	owners:
¤When	venture	capitalists	enter	the	firm,	they	will	demand	their	fair	
share	and	more	of	the	ownership	of		the	firm	to	provide	equity.
¤When	a	firm	decides	to	go	public,	it	has	to	trade	off	the	greater	access	
to	capital	markets	against	the	increased	disclosure	requirements	(that	
emanate	from	being	publicly	lists),	loss	of	control	and	the	transactions	
costs	of	going	public.
¤When	making	seasoned	offerings,	firms	have	to	consider	issuance	
costs	while	managing	their	relations	with	equity	research	analysts	and	
rat
10
Measuring	a	firm’s	financing	mix	…
Aswath Damodaran
10
¨The	simplest	measure	of	how	much	debt	and	equity	a	firm	is	
using	currently	is	to	look	at	the	proportion	 of	debt	in	the	total	
financing.	This	ratio	is	called	the	debt	to	capital	ratio:
Debt	to	Capital	Ratio	=	Debt	/	(Debt	+	Equity)
¨Debt	includes	 all	interest	bearing	liabilities,	 short	term	as	well	
as	long	term.	It	should	also	include	other	commitments	that	
meet	the	criteria	for	debt:	contractually	pre-set	payments	
that	have	to	be	made,	no	matter	what	the	firm’s	financial	
standing.
¨Equity	 can	be	defined	either	in	accounting	terms	(as	book	
value	of	equity)	or	in	market	value	terms	(based	upon	the	
current	price).	The	resulting	debt	ratios	can	be	very	different.
