Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/Slides/Session1.pdf

SESSION 1: THE ESSENCE OF 
STATISTICS
Session 1
Moneyball
2
What is data?
qData is a generic word that covers almost any type of 
information that you obtain. 
¨Data can come in different forms. 
¤Quantitative versus Qualitative: Quantitative data is numerical. 
Qualitative data is not, though it can sometimes be converted 
into numerical form. (Example: Pain scale)
¤Discrete versus Continuous: Discrete data can take only certain 
values (integer or otherwise). Continuous data take any value, 
though it can have upper or lower bounds.
¨While we have always relied on data for decision making, 
we have become much better at finding and chronicling 
the data, collecting and storing it, and making it 
accessible to a broader audience.
3
What is statistics?
qThe Data Science: Statistics is the discipline that allows 
us to gather, analyze, depict and make sense of data.
qData -> Information: Statistics is what helps us convert 
raw data, noisy and often contradictory, into information 
that can be used to make better decisions.
qMultifaceted: Defined as such, statistics includes
qThe collection and recording of data
qThe processing of that data
qThe analysis of the data
qThe depiction (presentation) of that data
4
Why do we need statistics?
1. As data access widens and becomes easier: We have access 
to more data, quantitative and qualitative, than we have 
ever had, because of innovations in how we collect data, 
how we store the data and how we access the data. 
2. Data overload is a problem: That access to data is leading to 
information overload, where we find that the line between 
facts and opinion is blurred, leaving us more confused than 
we ever have been.
3. Leading to simplistic rules of thumb: As our brains start to 
shut down in the face of data overload, we seek out rules 
from simpler times, many of which have no basis in truth, 
but make use feel in control.
4. And mental short cuts: We also adopt short cuts, again with 
no rational basis, just because they have worked in the past.
5
Statistics drives practice, policy and laws…
¨In almost every aspect of our lives, practice and policy is 
determined by statistics. 
¤In fiscal policy, governments decide taxation and spending, 
based upon statistical assessments of their effects on the 
economy.
¤In health care, questions of what drugs should be approved and 
what treatment patients should get is based upon statistics 
(often in medical research)
¤In our personal lives, our choices of where to work, live and how 
to save/invest are at least loosely driven by statistics.
¨Making good policy and personal decisions requires an 
understanding of statistics and data. If we misread the 
statistics or the statistics are unreliable, policy will as 
well.
6
Lying with statistics?
¨Agenda-driven data: As access to data has increased, the 
misuse of that data has also gone up, especially when people 
have agendas and want to further them. These people 
mislead, without technically lying, as the selectively pick and 
choose which data they use, and how they present that data.
¨Social media as magnifier: Bad data can take on a life of its 
own, especially with social media operating as a weapon to 
widen its reach.
¨Caveat emptor:As people weaponize data and use selective 
and slanted statistics, based upon that data, we need to be 
able to protect ourselves from misinformation. 
Understanding statistics allows us to:
¤Look for red flags that can be used to detect data manipulation
¤Asking the right questions to separate fact from fiction
7
Big Data and Data Analytics
¨Big Data: Big data is a catch-all that references not just 
the quantity of data, but also that the data is about 
behavior that until a few years ago would have been 
considered private and in real time. (Think location data 
on your phone, as a simple example). For better or 
worse, big data has been facilitated by technology 
platforms, which collect the data, as we use them.
¨Data Analytics: All statistics is data analytics, but in the 
context of big data, data analytics has expanded to cover 
¤Very large datasets, creating sample sizes that we have never 
worked with in the past.
¤Combining quantitative with qualitative data to create 
composite results.
8
1. Data Collection and Sampling
¨Data collection & storage: The very first exercises in data collection 
required interactions with subjects, paper documents and physical 
storage. As technology has evolved, data collection and storage has 
been digitized, and the risks have shifted.
¨Population versus Sample: With large populations, you often have 
to sample that population, either cross sectionally, across time, or 
both.
¨The Sampling Sins: While sampling, by itself, is part of statistics, 
there are two fundamental sins that you should try to avoid:
¤Bias: The sample has to be representative of the population. If the 
sampling method creates bias, the results from the sample cannot be 
extrapolated to the population.
¤Noise: Even if the sample is representative, the results that you obtain will 
have statistical error or noise that can muddy your conclusions.
9
2. Data Descriptive(Statistic)s
¨When faced with sample data, data descriptivestry to 
summarize the data with metrics. Those metrics can 
include
¤Measures of location: Measures of location try to identify the 
number or numbers around which the data is centered or is 
most likely to take.
¤Measures of dispersion: Measures of dispersion measure how 
much divergence there is on a data item, across a sample.
¤Measures of skewness: Measures of skewness look at whether 
how symmetric or asymmetric the data is around the central 
value.
¨These data descriptivesbecome short hand for 
characterizing the data, and the basis for analysis.
10
3. Data Distributions
¨A data distribution is a visual description of the data item 
in a distribution. In a histogram, for instance, you break the 
data down into groupings and count the outcomes of each 
grouping. 
¨While you can convert any data into a histogram, there are 
sometimes advantages in replacing this histogram with one 
of the many standardized descriptions in statistics that fits 
it. 
¨These standardized distributions can be
¤Discrete or continuous: A discrete distribution puts the variable into 
discrete values (0 or 1, numerical scale, bond ratings). A continuous 
distribution allows the variable to take any value.
¤Symmetric or asymmetric: A symmetric distribution has a center and 
symmetry on the up and down sides.
11
4. Data Relationships
¨In statistics, we can also examine how two or more variables are related 
to each other. 
¤In some cases, we restrict ourselves to chronicling whether that co-movementis in 
the same direction, opposite directions and that there is no co-movement at all.
¤In others, we try to find whether there is causation, where one variable’s 
movement is the cause of the other variable’s movement.
¤Finally, if there is a link, we can use statistics to try to predict a variable, based upon 
observed values of another variable.
¨As an example, consider the linkage between stock prices and interest 
rates.
¤We can measure whether interest rates and stock prices move together, in opposite 
directions and are unrelated.
¤We can also examine which direction the causation runs (do higher stock prices 
cause higher interest rates or vice versa)
¤And if there is causation or a link, we can see if we use changes in interest rates can 
be use to predict changes in stock prices or vice versa.
12
5. Probabilities
¨Probabilities measure the likelihood of something happening 
and are at the heart of statistics and data analysis.
¨The ”something happening” can be a discrete event or a 
variable that comes from a continuous distribution.
¤Discrete event: That a company can go bankrupt or stay a going 
concern.
¤Continuous variable: The likelihood that a company will generate 
earnings that exceed $1 billion.
¨You can estimate the probability of an event (discrete and 
continuous) happening by
nLooking at the past or historical data.
nAssuming a statistical distribution for the data, and that you can 
estimate the parameters of that distribution.
13
6. And Probabilistic Tools
¨Probit/Logit: A probit/logit measures the likelihood or probability 
of an event happening, based upon observable variables.
¤Example: Measuring the probability that a company will be acquired, given 
variables that you believe are correlated.
¨Decision Trees: When you have a series of discrete events that are 
sequential, a decision tree allows you to compute the likelihood of 
events happening, conditional on events leading up to it.
¤Example: The process by which an FDA drug works its way through the 
drug approval pipeline, from research to commercial development.
¨Monte Carlo Simulations: When you have multiple inputs that 
determine an output variable, a simulation allows you specify 
probabilistic distributions for each input variable and get a 
distribution for the output variable.
¤Example: Valuing a company, given its cash flows, growth and risk 
characteristics.
