Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/postclass/session3Atest.pdf

Session	3A:	Post	Class	tests	
Balance	Sheets	of	3	companies:	manufacturing,	retail	&	technology
1. Net	property,	plant	and	equipment	(Net	P,P&E)	at	each	of	these	companies	is	
computed	by	netting	out	accumulated	depreciation	from	gross	property,	
plant	and	equipment	(Gross	P,P&E).	Estimate	Net	PP&E	as	a	percent	of	Gross	
PP&E	at	each	company	and	explain	why	they	are	different.	
2. Estimate	working	capital	(current	assets	minus	current	liabilities)	at	each	of	
these	companies	and	analyze	the	differences	across	them.	How	would	you	
modify	the	definition	of	working	capital	to	make	it	more	meaningful	in	
financial	analysis?		
3. Navistar	has	a	negative	value	for	shareholders’	equity.	How	would	you	
explain	this?	
a. The	company	may	have	had	major	restructuring	and	extraordinary	
charges	against	income	in	prior	years.	
b. The	company	may	have	reported	losses	in	prior	years	
c. The	company	may	have	paid	far	more	in	dividends	than	it	reported	in	
net	income	in	prior	years	
d. The	company	may	have	bought	back	stock	in	large	quantities	in	prior	
years	
e. All	of	the	above	
4. Google	reports	goodwill	of	$20.6	billion	on	its	balance	sheet.	Which	of	the	
following	information	does	this	item	give	you	about	the	company?	
a. Google	has	made	a	substantial	acquisition	and	the	target	company	has	
significant	intangible	assets.	
b. Google	has	made	a	substantial	acquisition	and	paid	more	than	it	
should	have	on	the	acquisition	
c. Google	has	made	a	substantial	acquisition	and	paid	significantly	more	
than	book	value	for	the	target	firm	
d. Google	has	made	a	substantial	acquisition	and	got	itself	a	bargain	
(price	paid	was	well	below	value)	
e. None	of	the	above.	
5. Navistar	has	a	significant	pension	and	post-retirement	obligation	shown	as	a	
liability.	Which	of	the	following	does	this	measure?	
a. Total	pension	fund	and	post-retirement	obligations		
b. Underfunded	pension	fund	and	post-retirement	obligations	(total	
obligations	netted	out	against	pension	fund	assets)	
c. Overfunded	pension	fund	and	post-retirement	obligations		
d. None	of	the	above
