Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BigTech.pdf

THESHERMAN ACT COMESFOR
BIG TECH: CUI BONO?
They’re big and maybe bad…
2
The Lead In
¨In a court filing on October 9, 2024, the US Department of Justice 
(DOJ) let it be known that it was considering a break-up of 
Alphabet, with the addendum that it would also be pushing for the 
company to share the data it collects across its multiple platforms 
with competitors. 
¨It is entirely possible that these are threats designed to extract 
more concessions from the company, but the break-up talk is a 
continuation of a debate about the power accumulated by big tech 
companies, in general, and with Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, 
Alphabet and Meta, in particular, andwhat should be done about 
that power . 
¨With politicians, economists and lawyers all in the mix, offering 
widely divergent solutions, I look at the evolution of anti-trust law 
in the United States, and whether that law can or should be used to 
counter big tech.
3
Anti-trustLaw:Robber Baron Origins
¨ In the latter part of the nineteenth century, as the United States was 
transitioning from an emerging market to a global economic power, its growth 
was powered by three industries -steel, railroads and oil -all requiring large 
investments in infrastructure. 
¨ In each one of these businesses, powerful men earned their "robber baron" 
standing by squashing competition and building dominant companies that 
aspired for pricing power . 
¤ In oil, it was John D. Rockefeller, who started Standard Oil and built a sprawling empire across 
the nation, acquiring other players in the still nascent oil business. 
¤ With Carnegie Steel as his vehicle, Andrew Carnegie took control of the growing steel market, 
before selling his business to J.P . Morgan, who took it public as US Steel. 
¤ In railroads, a network of tycoons controlledswathes of the country, with Cornelius Vanderbilt, 
Jay Gold and Leland Stanford all playing starring roles, as heroes and villains. 
¨ Along the way, they created the trust structure, organizations of companies 
which controlled production and prices, effectively monopolizing the 
businesses.
4
TheBacklash:TheShermanActand Teddy 
Roosevelt
¨As these companies laid waste to competition, exploited labor and 
overcharged customers, a political and economic backlash ensued, 
manifesting in the Sherman Anti-trust Act of 1890 and the election of a 
Teddy Roosevelt, campaigning as a trust buster.
¨TheSherman Actused the constitutional power of Congress to regulate 
interstate commerce to authorize the federal government to break up the 
trusts and "restore competition", with the latter words vaguely defined. 
¤While the law outlawed "every contract, combination, or conspiracy in restraint of 
trade," and any "monopolization, attempted monopolization, or conspiracy or 
combination to monopolize", the Supreme Court added the constraint that the law 
only forbade competitive restraints that were "unreasonable".
¤That vagueness initially worked against the government, in its enforcement of the 
act, with the Supreme Court ruling against it in its attempt to break down the 
American Sugar Refining Company, in 1896, but the kinks were worked out in the 
next decade.
¤In 1911, President Taft used the act to break up Standard Oil into multiple oil 
businesses, and the entrails of that breakup can be found in many of the largest oil 
companies of today.
5
Augmenting Antitrust Law: The Clayton Act
¨In1914,CongresspassedtheClaytonActtoclarifyandaugmentthe
ShermanAct,andexpandeditsreachtocoverawholehostofactivities
thatitclassifiedasanti-competitive,includingsomemergers,predatory
pricingandsalesties.
¨Italsobarredindividualsfromsittingonboardsofcompetingcompanies
andcreatedtheFederalTradeCommission(FTC)asaninstitutionto
providethespecificsonwhatconstitutesunfaircompetitionandtowork
withtheDepartmentofJustice,toenforcetheserules.
¨Insubsequentyears,Congressreturnedtoaddprovisionsandmodifythe
act,including
¤theRobinson-PatmanActin1936,whichreinforcedthelawsagainstprice
discrimination
¤theCeller-KefauverActof1950,whichfilledingapsonthemergerprovisions,and
¤theHart-Scott-Rodino(HSR)Actof1976,whichintroducedtheneedforany
companyplanninganacquisitionthatexceededatransactionvaluethreshold(reset
atregularintervals)tofileapre-mergernotificationwiththeJusticeDepartment
andtowaitatleastthirtydaysbeforeconsummatingtheacquisition.
6
Enforcement Agents
¨The effectiveness of laws at dealing with the problems 
that they purport to solve depends in large part on how 
they are enforced. In fact, one reason that the Clayton 
Act created the Federal Trade Commission in 1914 was 
to enforce the anti-trust laws
¤TheFTCstates its missionas protecting"the public from 
deceptive or unfair business practices and from unfair methods 
of competition through law enforcement, advocacy, research 
and education." 
¤In carrying out this mission, the FTC often relies on the 
Department of Justice (DOJ), where anantitrust divisionwas 
created specifically for this purpose, in 1919.
¨Ultimately, though, it is the courts that decide whether 
the FTC (or DOJ’s) case has merit.
7
The Ebbs and Flows
¨Through the history of anti-trust laws in the United States, the 
enforcement has ebbed and flowed, partly as a result ofchanging 
administrations bringing in very different idealogicalperspectives 
on its need, partly in response to Court judgments in its favor or 
against it, but mostly because of questions aboutwhether the 
central objective of the laws is to enhance competition or to protect 
consumers. 
¨The divide between enhanced competition and consumers played 
out in competing viewpoints, with one school, led byRobert Bork, 
arguing that the original intent of the law is consumer protection, 
and the other pushing back that the end game of the law is to stop 
cartels and monopolies, i.e., enhancing competition. 
¨That tension continues to underlie much of the debate of the law 
today, in both political and economic circles, and will come into 
play if the DOJ pushes ahead trying for a big tech breakup.
8
BigTech:TheLina Khan Argument
¨ For most of the last few decades, the consumer protection argument has 
resonated more strongly with courts and has played out as a restraint on what 
actions the FTC can take, and how far it can go in enforcing antitrust law.
¨ It is this context that Joe Biden's choice of Lina Khan as the youngest person 
to head the FTC was viewed a signal of change in focus, since Ms. Khan's most 
well-read treatise,Amazon's Antitrust Paradox, written while she was still a 
student at Yale, argued that the company's increasing power was hurting both 
competitors and consumers. 
¨ In that paper, she posited that platform-based companies prioritized growth 
over profits, using their platform size to decimate competition, and that 
antitrust laws would have to be retooled to rein in these companies. 
¨ The central part of her argument is that while Amazon’s consumers benefit in 
the short term, because of lower prices and better service, they would lose 
out in the long term because less competition leads to less innovation and 
fewer choices.
9
The Lina Khan Effect: Muted…
10
But higher profile, in public…
¨That graph, though, does obscure the fact that the 
government has been more aggressive about challenging 
high profile mergers, and publicly proclaiming its intent 
to do so, in others. 
¨The results have been mixed, with wins in a few cases 
coming with losses in several others, with the failure to 
stop Microsoft's acquisition of Activision representing 
one of its highest profile losses. 
¨In short, while Ms. Khan's argument for use of antitrust 
laws to restrain platforms may have found a receptive 
audience among some legal thinkers and politicians, it 
has not won over the courts (at least as of now).
11
TheRemedies
1. Operating Restraints and Changes
¨The anti-trust laws give the government the power to 
affect how a company operates by stopping it from 
acting (by acquiring another company, introducing a new 
product or entering a new market) or changing its 
behavior (in terms of pricing it products and operating its 
business), in the interests of increased competitiveness. 
¨In doing so, though, the courts require the government 
to make the case that the actions that it is stopping or 
the behavior it is altering areunreasonableand that it 
meets the "rule-of-reason" threshold, i.e., thatthere are 
anticompetitive effects that exceed any pro-competitive 
effects.
12
a. Merger Challenges
¨Corporate mergers in the United States, where the transaction value 
exceeded $111.3 million in 2023, required the acquiring company tofile a 
pre-merger notificationwith the Justice department, with consummation 
of the merger happening only after approval. 
¨In its most recent update to requirements on pre-merger notifications, 
the DOJ expanded its information disclosure requirements to include 
transaction-related documents from deal teams and more complete 
information about both the products and services offered by the 
companies, as well as about corporate governance. 
¨ In areportthat it is required to file under the Hart-Scott-RodinoAct for 
the 2023 fiscal year, the DOJ listed out the number of merger challenges 
for the year (16), breaking them down into wins (1), consent agreements 
(4), ongoing litigation (1) and abandonments/restructured complaints 
(10).
13
Most challenged industries
14
b. Operating changes
• Forced divestitures: As part of a settlement allowing a proposed merger 
of VistraCorporation to acquire nuclear plants owned by Energy Harbor 
Corporation, where the FTC raised concerns about less competition and 
higher energy prices for consumers, Vistraagreedto divestits power 
plant in Ohio. 
• Product bundling/Pricing: As a condition for allowing Amgen to move 
forward on its acquisition of Horizon Therapeutics, where the FTC feared 
that Amgen would use its large drug portfolio to pressure pharmacies to 
push Horizon's two monopoly products, the FTC secured a consent order 
where Amgen agreed not to condition any of its product pricing or 
rebates on whether Horizon drugs were prescribed.
• Corporate governance: In EQT's acquisition of Quantum, the FTC's 
concern was that as these companies were direct competitors, giving EQT 
a seat on the board and a large shareholding in Quantum would reduce 
competition. Consequently, EQT was forced to divest its EQT shares and 
was prohibited from having a board seat.
15
c. Pricing Oversight
¨If it is price fixing by a company that has drawn the 
attention of the antitrust enforcers, it is possible that the 
remedies sought will reflect changes in the way a 
company prices its products and services. 
¤In 1996, Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) pleaded guilty to fixing 
prices for Lysine, an animal feed, in collaboration with Japanese 
and Korean companies. The company, in addition topaying a 
large fine and having top executives face jail time,was also 
required to change its pricing processes. 
¤In 2024, the FTCpublished a warningthat the use of algorithms 
by multiple competitors in the same business, to set prices, can 
violate antitrust laws,andsued RealPage, a property 
management software, for allegedly allowing landlords to use its 
algorithms to drive up rental prices.
16
2. Breaking up –The Standard Oil Breakup 
(1911)
17
The AT&T Breakup
18
The (almost) Microsoft Breakup
Aswath Damodaran
18
¨The third breakup, albeit one that did not go 
through,targeted Microsoft in 2000, where the DOJ 
sought to break up the company, separating its operating 
system (Windows) from its application software and 
browsing businesses (Office and Internet Explorer). 
¨The courts initially found in the government's favor, but 
that ruling was subsequently set aside. 
¨Eventually, the company settled,agreeing to share some 
of its application programming interfacewith third-party 
company, but avoided major restructuring.
19
3. Regulated Monopoly
¨ The phone business was still in its nascency, when theWillis Graham Act was 
passed in 1921, arguing that "(t)here are monopolies which ought to exist in the 
interest of economy and good service in the public welfare, monopolies which 
must be promoted instead of being forbidden."
¤That act allowed AT&T , then the leading phone company in the United States, to acquire 
its mostly troubled competitors to create a monopoly, with a catch. That catch was that 
the company's pricing power would be regulated to deliver a reasonable rate of return 
for its investors, thus creating the basis for regulated monopolies.
¤The notion of a naturalmonopoly was not restricted to just telecommunications, and 
was used for other utilities, such as water and power, with the only difference being that 
most of the companies offering those utilities obtained local monopolies rather than 
national ones. 
¨ Arguably, the decision delivered benefits for customers, as the services were 
extended to almost every part o the country, albeit at the cost of innovation. As a 
side benefit, these regulated monopolies, protected from competition, had the 
capacity use their surplus funds to support activities that had societal benefits, 
that they wouldnothavein a competitive setting.
20
The End Game
21
The Big Tech Dilemma
¨This session was precipitated by the Justice department’s 
targeting of Alphabet, with threats of a break-up and 
requiring the company to share its data. 
¨While neither threat has been made explicit, it is 
worthwhile thinking about how the big tech companies 
measure on the competitiveness scale, and whether 
antitrust law can or should be used to cut them down to 
size. 
¨The challenge, as we will see, is that we all agree that big 
tech has become perhaps too big, but the question of 
how it got that big has tobe answered before we 
respond to the bigness.
22
1. Big tech is big (in market cap)
23
Andinoperatingmetrics
24
And in day-to-day life
¨There is a final component on which you can measure 
how big these companies have become, and that is to 
look at how much of our time and lives is spent on one 
or more of their platforms. 
¨In aNew York Times article from 2020, the writer talked 
about trying to live without big tech for six weeks, and 
how difficult she found the consequences to be. 
¨During the same year, I chronicled in a post how much 
time I spent each day on the platforms on one or more 
of the big tech companies, essentially concluding that I 
was in their grip for all but fifteen minutes of the day.
25
Pathways to Bigness
1. Core Business Dominance
26
2. Shaky Side Businesses (with one 
exception)
¨ Largely funded by cashflows from their core businesses, the big tech companies 
have tried to enter new businesses, mostly with little to show for their 
investments. 
¤ Alphabet has been most open about its ambitions to be in multiple businesses and its 
renaming was largely a signal of that intent. 
¤ Amazon's ambitions to be a disruption machine have been widely documented, with forays 
into logistics, entertainment and even health care. 
¤ Apple has been more restrained, but it too has tried its hand at entertainment and other 
businesses. 
¤ Meta, after facing market backlash for its badly framed entry into the Metaverse, has retooled 
itself and is trying for success in AI and virtual reality. 
¨ For the most part, these side businesses have been cash drains, and added little in 
value, with one exception. 
¤ For three of these companies, Amazon, Alphabet and Microsoft, thecloud businesshas 
become not only a large part of their revenue base, but also an even bigger contributor to 
their profitability. 
¤ With Apple, the services business is offering promise in terms of growth and is a gold mine 
when it comes to profitability, but it draws much of its value from the iPhone franchise.
27
3. Consumer Subsidization
¨These companies have also created subsidy mechanisms for 
consumers, offering them products and services that are "free" or 
"bargains", at least on the surface. 
¤Amazon Prime remains one of the best deals in the world for consumers, 
since for an annual fee of $139, you get free shipping, entertainment and a 
host of other services. In fact, Amazon makes explicit the cost of the 
shipping subsidy in its annual reports each year, and it has spent tens of 
billion each year for the last decade, supporting that service. 
¤Alphabet offers a whole range of products, from Google Docs to Google 
maps, at no explicit cost, and there are hundreds of millions that use 
WhatsApp around the world, with no monthly charges or fees. 
¨Apple and Microsoft, befitting their standing as the elder 
statesmen in this group, have been more stingyabout providing 
free add ons, but they too have sweeteners that they offer, usually 
in exchange for data from users.
28
The Unfairness Arguments
1. Subsidizetheirproductofferings:Oneofthecritiquesoftechcompaniesisthat
theyusethemassiveprofitstheygeneratefromtheirbusinesses,coreandcloud,
tosubsidizetheirproductofferingstocustomers.
2. Networkingbenefits:Mostofthesecompanieshavelargeplatforms,andinthe
businessesthattheyoperatein,thatcanworkintheirfavor.
3. Useofprivatedata:Whenusersspendtheirtimeonthetechcompanyplatforms,
theyareprovidingdatatothesecompaniesthatcanbeusedtotheirbenefit.
4. Squashingcompetingtechnologies:Whenyourplatformsbecomeubiquitous,
yourcompetitorsmightneedyourpermissiontoplayontheseplatforms,andthe
bigtechcompaniesoftenmakeiteithermoredifficulttoplayorclaimalarge
chunkofrevenues.
5. Notpayingfairpriceforcontent:Manyofthebigtechplatformsallowusersto
accesscontentforfree,withthecontentdevelopersfeelingshortchanged.Thebig
techcompaniesbenefitfromthiscontentaccess,becausethataccessincreases
platformusageandtheirrevenues(fromadvertising,devicesalesetc.),butina
fairsystem,theyshouldbesharingthisrevenuewiththecontentdevelopersand
providers
29
Theconclusions
1. Hurtcompetitors,subsidizeconsumers:Asyoulookatthecritiqueofbig
tech,itisclearthatthedamagefrombigtechcompanybehaviorhasbeen
feltmostlybycompetitors.Infact,consumersforthemostparthave
benefitedfromthesubsidiesthattheyhavereceived,andiftheyare
aggrievedabouttheuseofthedatathattheyhavesharedwiththe
companies,itisunclearhowmuchtheyhavebeenhurtbythatsharing.
2. CurrentversusProspectivesins:Extendingthefirstpoint,eventhemost
severecriticsofbigtecharguethatthecostsofallowingthemto
dominatewillbeinthefuture,LinaKhan'scriticismofAmazonisthat
whilecustomersbenefitrightnowfromAmazonPrimeandother
freebies,therewillbecoststheybearinthefuturethatwilloutweighthe
benefits.Inparticular,shearguesthattherewillbelesschoiceand
innovation,becauseofAmazon'sdominance,andthatAmazonwill
eventuallybecomepowerfulenoughtoraiseprices,andconsumerswill
havenowheretogo.TheproblemthatMs.Khanandothersinhercamp
willfaceisthatthereisnothinginthecompany'sbehaviorcurrentlythat
wouldleadustoextrapolatetothosedireendings.
30
The Choices
1. Break up
¨ While you can think of the multiple platforms that Alphabet operates as separate, 
the truth is that the core business is advertising, and whether you are on the 
Google search box, YouTube or on Android, that business derives its value from 
keeping users in the Google ecosystem, rather than on independent platforms. 
¨ There is an added reason why breaking either Alphabet or Facebook into 
individual platforms makes no economic sense. Online advertising is a business 
with networking benefits, and any solution that pushes you away from 
consolidation, may create more competition, but will worsen business efficiency 
and health. 
¨ You can demand that Alphabet be forced to divest itself of all of it non-ad related 
bets, but very few of these businesses can stand alone. It is true that the cloud 
businesses have the capacity to stand alone, but what is the argument that you 
would use for forcing divestiture? After all, in the three companies that have 
significant cloud businesses -Alphabet, Microsoft and Amazon, their success in 
the cloud had little or nothing to do with core business domination and 
divestitures make it less likely that consumers gets subsidized products, which will 
make them worse off.
31
2. Regulated Monopoly
• Theregulatedmonopoliesofthelastcenturyagreedtothepricing
restrictionquidquoprobecausethegovernmentgavethemmonopoly
powerinthefirstplace.Withtechcompanies,whatexactlywouldthe
governmentbeofferingthesecompaniesinreturnforthelossofpricing
power?WithAlphabetandMeta,theonlineadvertisingmarketisnotthe
government'stogiveaway,andwithsmartphone(Apple)andonlineretail
(Amazon),itbecomesanevenbiggerreach.
• If,infact,thegovernmentdidgetcontrolofpricingpoweratthese
companies,whowouldbethebeneficiaries?Withonlineads,thebenefits
wouldflowtotheadvertisers,atransferofwealthfromonesetof
companies(theBigTechadvertisingcompanies)toanothersetof
businesses(themanycompaniesthatadvertiseonthetechplatforms),
andthatisneitherfairnotequitable.
• Iftheendgameisinnovation,andwithtechnology,itisthelubricantfor
success,creatingregulatedmonopoliesandrequiringthemtoearntheir
costofcapitalwillnotonlydestroyincentivestoinnovate,butleavethese
companiesexposedtodisruptorsfromothermarkets.
32
3a. Targeted actions (that may work)
1. Platformaccess:Ifyouownaplatformwhereuserscongregate,youcannotmake
theroadblockstothirdpartiesbeingontheplatformsoonerousthattheyareput
atanalmostinsurmountabledisadvantage.IthinkthatAppleandAlphabetwillbe
pushedtomaketheirplatformsmoreaccessible(technicallyandeconomically)
thantheyarerightnow.
2. Payingforcontent:AsAIloomslarger,thefightovercontentownershipwillget
moreintense,sinceAIcannotonlybeamonstrouslylargeconsumerofcontent,
butcandosowithlittleheedtowherethecontentcomesfrom,orwhoownsit.
Contentownersanddevelopedmayneedanassistfromthegovernment,when
theyfighttoreclaimthecontentthatbelongstothem.
3. CustomerandUserRecourse:Thepowerdynamicswhenyouuseatechplatform
areimbalanced,andasauserorcustomer,youoftenhavenopoweragainstthe
companyoperatingtheplatform,ifitchoosestoactagainstyou.Assomeonewho
haskeptmyblogonGoogleBloggerandmyvideosonYouTube,thereisalmost
nothingIcandoifAlphabetdecidestoshutthembothdown,otherthanappeal
tothecompanyandhopetogetafairhearing.Governmentsmaypushmore
formalappealsprocesses,withindependentarbiters,toprovideformorebalance.
33
3b. And probably will not…
1. Sharedatawithcompetitors:Itispossiblethatthegovernmentwilltrytoget
techcompaniestosharethedatatheycollect,butIbelievethatthisisneither
fairnoracompetitiveplus.Whilehavingthedatagivesthemanadvantage
overtheircompetitors,thatcanbesaidaboutcompetitiveadvantagesin
manyotherbusinesses,andcompaniesinthosebusinessesarenotaskedto
dotheequivalent.
2. Nocrosssubsidization:Theproblemisthatcrosssubsidizationispartof
almosteverylargecompany,wheresuccessful,cash-richportionsofthe
companysubsidizecash-poorportions,perhapswithgrowthpotential.Those
subsidiescansometimeshurtshareholdersofthecompany,butitisnotthe
DOJ'sjobtoprovidethemwithprotection.Infact,thebigtechcompanies
havenotbeenimmunefrominvestorbacklash,asMetafoundout,whenit
pusheditsMetaverseinvestingplansforwardwithnoclearpathwayto
monetization.
3. DeviceCompatability:Muchasthismayfrustrateus,asconsumers,no
companyshouldbeobligatedtomakeiteasierforcompetitorstotake
businessaway,andgovernmentattemptstosuggestotherwisewillbeheavy
handedandineffective.
34
4. Do nothing
¨Tech life cycles are short: Tech companies age in dog years, 
scaling up much faster, not lasting at the top as long and 
declining much more quickly than non-tech companies.
¨As an extension of the first point, if innovation costs money, 
and life cycles are short, companies have tobe allowed to 
make money during their brief stints at the top, to justify 
innovation.
¨To the extent that big tech companies are tempted to play it 
safe, cutting back on innovation and using their market power 
to increase prices on customers, i.e., the Lina Khan doomsday 
scenario, they expose themselves to disruption far more than 
manufacturing or consumer product companies do.
35
Conclusion
¨ It is clear that Ido not see eye to eye with Lina Khan, but I will start with the 
presumption that she has good intentions and that her argument is deeply 
thought through. 
¨ My concerns with her big tech views are two-fold. The first is that she is a lawyer, 
and law schools around the world do an awful job on teaching their graduates 
about business. The second is that she is a true believer, and if you start with the 
view that big tech companies are evil, you will undoubtedly find good reasons to 
cut them down to size.
¨ Idorecognizethattherearenon-economicconsiderationsatplay,andthatyou
mayfeartheeffectthatbigtechplatformsarehavingonourpoliticsandsocial
discourse.Isharethatconcern,butIamnotsurethatthereisaneconomic
solutiontothatproblem
¨ IfyouthinkthatbreakingupGoogleandMetawillleadtomorepolitediscourse
onsocialmediaandareturntotheculturalnormsofyesteryear,youarebeing
naive,sincetheproblemliesnotinTwitter,FacebookorReddit,butinourselves.I
amafraidthatwehaveopenedPandora'sbox,andthereisnoshuttingitnow!
