Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/SpaceXpostprospectus.pdf

Separating the wheat from the chaff in financial 
statements!
2
§Ina post a few weeks ago, I assessed the value of SpaceX 
ahead of its initial public offering, with the admission that I was 
making my estimates with drabs of data, some of it coming 
from unofficial sources. 
§I also promised to revisit my valuation, when the prospectus 
came out, and now that it has, I will use this post to examine 
how the information it contains has changed my view of the 
company and its valuation. 
§I will also use this post to talk about the information gained by 
having access to a company's financials, and why the 
information you glean from those financials is different at 
younger companies, with growth potential, relative to mature 
companies.
3
§In a paper focusing on IPOs from a couple of years ago, I noted that 
prospectuses have become more bloated over time, often 
running four to five times longer than those filed by companies 
that went public four decades ago, but not necessarily more 
informative. 
§TheSpaceX prospectus that we made public on May 20, 2026, is 
277 pages long, with an addendum that runs another 100 
pages, with dozens of pictures (mostly of spaceships going into 
orbit) and a soaring story, but with weak links and distractions 
galore.
§To get a measure of how the prospectus changes my pre-
prospectus story and valuation, 
§I will start with the easy part of the update, where I use the numbers 
from the financial statements in the prospectus to replace my pre-
prospectus estimates. 
§I will then move on to the weightier part, where I assess how the 
information in the prospectus change my story line and value for the 
company.
4
Operating Numbers
Financing Numbers
5
§Share count: In my initial valuation, I used the private 
company pricing per share in conjunction with estimated 
market cap to back out a share count of 2467 million 
shares. 
§With the prospectus, we get a clearer sense of shares outstanding, 
with a basic share count of 12,535 million shares reported in the 
prospectus (pages 246 & 247) in computing per share numbers. 
§That share count does not include the new shares that will be 
issued in the offering, but that share count will be determined by 
the magnitude of the offering as well as the expected issuance 
price or the restricted stock units held by employees (see 
prospectus, page 18) and that information is still not blanked out in 
the prospectus.
§Use of proceeds: It is estimated that SpaceX plans to raise $75-
$80 billion from the offering, and the prospectus specifies 
that the company plans to hold the proceeds to cover 
infrastructure investments in these businesses.
6
§The prospectus also lays bare the governance questions that 
will overhang the firm, with information that there will betwo 
classes of shares- 6,932 million class A shares with one vote per 
share and 5,602 million class B shares with ten votes per share. 
§The public offering will be class A shares, and with Elon Musk 
holding all of the class B shares, he will control more than 
85% of the voting rights in the company.
§The prospectus is long and filled with distractions, but there 
is almost nothing in it that surprises me. As anticipated, SpaceX 
is a growing company that is money-losing and cash-
burning, but growing in the aggregate, that will be a Elon 
Musk vehicle.
7
8
9
10
11
§I will stick with my estimates for target markets for the 
space launch and connectivity businesses, since the TAMs in 
the prospectus are, in my view, overreaches, and I will slow 
growth in the near years, to reflect that these businesses will 
take time to mature. 
§In the AI business, I disagree with the magnitude of the TAM 
in the prospectus, but the acquisition of Cursor and the 
indications in the prospectus suggest that xAI very much wants 
to be part of the enterprise solutions space, notwithstanding its 
immense capitalization needs, and I will double my target 
revenues for AI from $80 billion to $160 billion, reflecting 
my estimate of a TAM of about $3 trillion to $4 trillion for AI 
products and services.
12
13
§On the space launch business, the cost of launching payloads at 
SpaceX have been trending down, making its already large cost 
advantages in the business even larger:
§On the connectivity businesses, there is bad news and good news 
on the per user front. The bad news is that the revenues, per 
month, per subscriber, declined from $99 in monthly revenues 
in 2024 to $66 in monthly revenues in the first quarter of 2026. 
The good news is that the number of subscribers has doubled 
from 5 million in the first quarter of 2025 to 10.3 million in the 
first quarter of 2026, with the bonus that the company has been 
able to improve its profitability (see gross margins in the table 
above) over time.
§On the AI business, there is not much to go on, on the 
profitability front, since the focus in the prospectus is more on the 
increase in compute capacity (see nameplate compute draw on 
Page 90 of the prospectus) than it is on revenues, especially on the 
enterprise front.
14
§The unit economics for the space businesses, in conjunction 
with the recognition that there are no other substantial 
operating expenses (outside of the misclassified R&D expense) 
in either business, lead me to increase the target margin for 
the business to 45%, from 40%. 
§I will leave intact the target margin of 60% for the 
connectivity business, because once the satellites that service 
this business are in space, the operating margins will continue 
their upward march. 
§My biggest shift is in the target margin that I estimate for the AI 
business, where the dynamics that are pushing gross 
margins down, i.e., increased competition and high costs 
of delivering AI services, will persist; my estimated 
operating margin drops from 45% to 25%.
15
16
§Given that SpaceX is continuing to invest substantial amounts in 
its space launch and connectivity businesses, I will increase 
reinvestment in the near term (years 1-5) by lowering how 
much they will generate as additional revenues for every 
additional dollar of capital invested (lower sales to capital 
ratios). 
§With AI, where I was already assuming that reinvestment 
would be large (with a low sales to capital ratio), the tripling of 
target revenues will result in a surge in reinvestment to 
generate the higher sales.
17
19
§There are a multitude of risks that SpaceX faces in each of its 
businesses, but the one that I would be concerned about the 
most is that it will overreach in the AI business, beginning 
with an overestimate of the target market for AI products and 
services and its own competitive position in that market, and 
following through with investments that reflect those misplaced 
assessments. 
§Those concerns are heightened by a voting share structure 
that locks in Elon Musk's control of the company, since 
there is little that shareholders can do to restrain the 
company, if it doubles down on capital expenditures and 
acquisitions in the AI space, even after it becomes clear that the 
AI market is much smaller than anticipated and/or that xAI's 
offerings are not as good as the competition.
20
§Financial analysis and valuation, going back to Ben Graham's 
Security Analysis, has always been centered on financial 
statements, and that focus has become more intense over the 
last few decades as access to data and analysis tools has 
expanded. 
§In fact, much of what passes for valuation has become financial 
modeling, where line items are forecast based upon the historical 
time series, with the proverbial bottom lines being earnings and 
cash flows. 
§Along the way, ratios computed from numbers in financial 
statements, with accounting returns on equity and capital taking a 
lead role, are used to screen companies for investment quality. 
§The SpaceX prospectus is a case study in why this approach to 
investing is myopic and often misleading, and why the 
informational value of financial statements will shift as companies 
grow and mature.
21
22
23
§If you allow for the fact that all three of SpaceX's businesses 
are young, falling in the young to high growth categories, 
the big questions driving value are about market size and unit 
economics, since the former provides the basis for revenue 
growth and the latter determines profitability. 
§That is why, when looking at the prospectus for the company , 
it was the data on unit economics and capital intensity that 
had a much bigger impact on value, and this information, for 
the most part, was in the footnotes to the financials, rather than 
in the financial statements themselves.
§The mix of good news and bad news in the prospectus 
creating offsetting impacts and left the overall value almost 
unchanged.
24
§There are many good arguments that can be made about why you 
should not invest in SpaceX, but basing that conclusion on the 
fact that they are money-losing or have negative cash flows is 
both lazy and unconvincing. 
§In contrast, making a case against investing in SpaceX because 
you believe that the target markets for its businesses will be far 
smaller than the company thinks they will be, or that cost and 
competitive pressures will drive margins down or even that you 
find its corporate governance structure and dependence on a 
personality (Elon Musk) off-putting is perfectly reasonable. 
§If you do make that case, though, it is worth remembering that you 
don't have a monopoly on the truth and that disagreements 
about market size and profitability across investors, 
especially in young companies, are natural and healthy. 
§In short, based on my inputs and story, I think that SpaceX is 
worth about $1.25-$1.3 trillion, but if you contend that it is worth 
$3 trillion or only half a trillion, it is neither my job nor place to 
convince you that I am right and that you are wrong.
25
26
§Looking at the IPO from SpaceX perspective, the public offering will 
provide benefits. 
§For the owners in the company in its private form, including venture capitalists 
from early in its life to public investors in more recent years, becoming publicly 
listed will allow them to cash out, albeit after the lock-out period expires in a 
few months. 
§For the company, the increased access to capital from being a public company 
will allow it to cover the capital expenditures and investment needs that emanate 
from the company's ambitions in the AI business. 
§For Elon Musk, the public offer ing has the potential to make him the first 
trillionaire in history, in addition to unlocking new pathways to further 
enrichment for meeting specified targets (including getting a million people on 
Mars).
§Since many of these benefits have been in existence for many years, the 
fact that company stayed private for that period is an indication that there 
are costs to going public. 
§The first is that, notwithstanding Musk's voting control of the company, become a 
public company will open SpaceX to market scrutiny , in the form of earnings 
reports every quarter and insider trading reports. 
§The second is that the market is fickle, and while it is rewarding companies that 
invest in AI with high market prices today, it can change its mind and punish them 
for the same reason.
27
§I am more investor than trader, and I say that without 
judgment, since the end game in markets is to make money, not 
score intellectual points. 
§In fact, my valuation of SpaceX was driven by my interest in the 
company and my belief that it is in unique, cutting-edge 
businesses, and my decision on whether to buy into the 
offering is therefore driven by my assessment of its value. 
§While there is no offer price listed yet, at the rumored pricing 
of $1.8 to $ 2 trillion for the company, it is too richly priced for 
my tastes, given my valuation of $1.25-$1.35 trillion for the 
equity in the company. 
§That does not imply that I will never buy the stock, since the 
market does change its mind, and if the price does drop by 
enough, my decision would change accordingly
28
§If you are a trader, though, the game changes. Y our judgment on 
whether you seek to partake in the SpaceX offering will depend 
on your reading of market mood and momentum. 
§I would not be surprised in the least to see the offering priced 
at $1.8 trillion, and see a jump in the price on the day of or in the 
weeks after the offering, and if that is your most likely scenario, 
being able to get into the offering at the offer price or even in the 
first few hours or days of trading will be a winning strategy. 
§The risk, of course, is that momentum can shift quickly, causing 
a significant price drop, effectively making timing your trades 
right key to your trading strategy.
§The shifting and often unpredictable forces of mood and 
momentum are also the reason that as an investor, I would not sell 
short, notwithstanding my value assessment, even if the pricing 
for the company pushes from $1.8 trillion to $2 trillion or more.
29
§As the IPO process for SpaceX heats up in the coming weeks, you 
should prepare yourself for a flood of selling from the company 
and its bankers, with talk of possibilities and potential 
predominating. 
§If you are on the receiving end of these sales pitches, you should listen 
but check the numbers for plausibility and make your own 
judgments on value. 
§For the bankers involved and the issuing company , the biggest 
danger to a successful offering is not that there will be near-term 
reality checks on their hype, but that the market mood will shift, either 
in the aggregate or specifically related to AI, in the weeks leading up to 
the offering.
§No matter what your views are about the SpaceX IPO, positive or 
negative, there is no denying that this company is a loaded bet 
on futuristic technology and Elon Musk, and while that may 
concern some of you, there are others who will look at Musk's track 
record with Tesla and feel the odds are in their favor.
