Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TurkeyCrisis.pdf

DÉJÀ VU IN TURKEY: CURRENCY 
CRISIS AND CORPORATE INSANITY
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Turkish Crisis: The Lira as Symbol
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
3
The Fundamentals
4
And the Consequences
¨ In Turkey: The drop of the lira has sent Turkey 
spiraling into a crisis, with foreign currency reserves 
running short and the economy going into shock.
¨ The Contagion effect: As Turkey goes into crisis, the 
rest of the world is being drawn in:
¤ Emerging market currencies are dropping and developed 
market currencies are gaining.
¤ Default spreads for both sovereigns and corporates are 
increasing.
¤ Equity markets around the world are coming under selling 
pressure.
5
Corporate Finance: First Principles
6
The Financing Principle: Debt Matching
Projects/assets Debt Design
Duration of projects If projects are long term (short term), debt 
should be long term (short term) as well.
Cash flow profile If cash flows are even over time, straight debt is 
better . If cash flows are low in early years, but 
expected to grow over time, convertible debt
fits.
Currency Currency mix of debt should be reflective of 
currency mix of cashflows (especially inflows). 
Pricing power With pricing power, as inflation rises, cash flows 
will rise as well and floating rate debt makes 
sense. Without pricing power, as inflation rises, 
profits can be squeezed, cash flows can drop 
and fixed rate debt is a better fit.
7
Debt Matching
¨ Debt Design: The simplest and most direct way to match 
debt up to assets is to design the debt to match up to 
asset characteristics (in terms of maturity, convertibility, 
fixed/floating rate and currency).
¨ Derivatives & Swaps: The other is to issue mismatched 
debt (for whatever reason) and then use derivatives 
markets or swaps to reduce or eliminate the mismatch.
¨ Simple rule: A company that knows its long term project 
characteristics and asset composition should issue debt 
that matches that long term exposure, and then use 
derivatives to protect itself against short term 
movements.
8
The Turkish Problem
¨ Corporations around the world seem to revel in 
mismatching debt and assets, using short term debt 
to fund long term assets (or vice versa) and 
sometimes debt in one currency to fund projects 
that generate cashflows in another . 
¨ In numerous studies, done over the decades, looking 
across countries, Turkish companies rank among the 
very worst, when it comes to mismatching 
currencies on debt, using foreign currency debt 
(Euros and dollars primarily) to fund domestic 
investments.
9
1. The FX Imbalance
10
2. With Turkish Banks being the main 
facilitators…
11
3. With a maturity mismatch added in..
12
4. With pain in the near term…
13
The Rationale for Mismatching
¨ Clearly a problem: Turkish firms clearly have a debt mismatch 
problem, and the institutions (government, bank regulators, banks) 
that should have been keeping the problem in check seem to have 
played an active role in making it worse. 
¨ And has happened before: Worse, this is not the first time that 
Turkish firms and banks will be working through a debt mismatch 
crisis. It has happened before, in 1994, 2001 and 2008, just looking 
at recent decades. If insanity is doing the same thing over and over, 
expecting a different outcome, there is a good case to be made 
that Turkish institutions, from top to bottom, are insane, at least 
when it comes to dealing with financing. 
¨ And is happening elsewhere: This mismatching seems to occur in 
many emerging markets, though to a lesser scale, why do 
companies go for currency mismatches?
14
1. Acceptable Reasons
¨ The mismatched debt is subsidized: If the mismatched debt is 
being offered to you at rates that are well below what you 
should be paying, given your default risk, you should accept 
that mismatched debt. 
¨ Domestic debt markets are moribund: There are emerging 
markets where the only option for borrowing money is local 
banks, and during periods of uncertainty or crisis, these banks 
can pull back from lending.
¨ Domestic debt markets are too rigid: As you can see from the 
debt design section, the perfect debt for your firm will often 
require tweaks that include not only conversion and floating 
rate options, but more unusual tweaks (such as commodity-
linked interest rates).
15
2. Dangerous Reasons
1. Speculate on currency: Mismatching currencies, when 
you borrow money, can be a profitable exercise, if the 
currency moves in the right direction. There will be a 
moment of reckoning, when exchange rates will 
correct, and unless the company can see this moment 
coming and correct its mismatch, it will not only lose all 
of the east profits, but find its survival threatened.
2. Everyone does it Many of these companies argue that 
the government cannot let the entire corporate sector 
slide into default and will step in to bail them out, and 
true to form, governments deliver those bailouts. In 
effect, the taxpayers become the backstop for bad 
corporate behavior .
16
3. Bad Reasons
1. The mismatched debt has a lower interest rate: I have 
heard CFOs of companies in emerging markets, where 
domestic debt carries high interest rates, argue that it 
is cheaper to borrow in US dollars or Euros, because 
interest rates are lower . 
2. Risk/Reward: Some companies believe that they will 
earn higher profits, on average and over time, with 
mismatched debt than with matched debt, but with 
more variability in those profits. This argument stems 
from the misplaced belief that markets reward all risk 
taking, when the truth is that senseless risk taking just 
delivers more risk, with no reward, and mismatching 
debt is senseless.
17
Fixing the Mismatch Problem
¨ Governments should stop enabling debt mismatching, by not stepping in 
repeatedly to save corporates that have mismatched debt. 
¨ Bank Regulators should measure how much the banks that they regulate 
have lent out to corporates, in mismatched debt, and require them to set 
aside more capital to cover the inevitable losses. 
¨ Banks have to incorporate whether the debt being taken by a business is 
mismatched in deciding how much to lend and on what terms. 
¨ Companies and businesses have to consider what currency a loan or bond 
is in, when evaluating the interest rate, and in their own best interests, try 
to match up debt to assets.
¨ Investors in companies should start breaking down the profitability of 
firms with mismatched debt, especially in good periods, into profits from 
debt mismatch and profits from operations, and ignore or at least 
discount the former, when pricing these companies.
