Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ChinaTech.pdf

THE CHINESE TECH CRACKDOWN: 
CONTROL BEATS GROWTH
Governments and Company Value
2
The Chinese Tech Crackdown!
¨For the last two decades, China has been the dominant story in the 
global economy and capital markets, as the country's immense 
growth and concurrent infrastructure investments have sustained 
commodity prices and altered the balance of world economic 
power . 
¨That growth has come with the recognition that in almost every 
venture in China, public or private, the Chinese government is not 
just a factor, but thekey player determining the venture's success 
and failure. 
¤Afraid of being shut out of the biggest, growth market in the world, 
businesses operating in the country accepted limits and constraints that 
they would fight in almost every other part of the world. 
¤In the last year or so, Chinese tech companies, including shining stars like 
Alibaba, Tencent and Didi have woken up to this recognition, and investors 
have had to quickly readjust their expectations for these companies.
3
China’sPlaceintheGlobalEconomy:AReally 
Long TermPerspective
4
And more recently…
5
China carries the world: The Last Decade
6
The Rise of Chinese Financial Markets
7
The Surge of Tech
8
The Chinese Tech Decade
¨The rise of technology as an economic force and market 
driver is not unique to China. After all, the FANGAM stocks 
(Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google, Apple and Microsoft) 
were the engine that drove market capitalizations in the US 
for the last decade, with COVID super charging their rise in 
2020.
¨There is an advantage to taking a deeper look at some of the 
biggest winners in the business, not only to understand why 
they succeeded, but also to get insights into whether they 
can sustain that success in the future. 
¤It is for that reason that I will focus onfour Chinese tech companies 
(Tencent, Alibaba, JD.comand Didi) for the rest of this post, the first 
three because they make the top fifteen list, in terms of market 
capitalization in China, and the last because of its high profileIPO, just 
a few weeks ago.
9
Tencent Operating History
10
Alibaba: Operating History
11
JD.com: Operating History
12
Didi: Operating History
13
1.BigMarkets (Squared)
¨Big Market Squared: China was the engine that drove global growth over 
the last decade, and with that growth has come a surge in buying power 
for Chinese consumers. Companies that are positioned to take advantage 
of this growth, whether domestic or foreign, have been rewarded by 
investors with higher market capitalizations. With tech companies that 
are disrupting conventional businesses, there is an added allure of growth 
occurring at the expense of the status quo. You could argue that this 
combination (of China and disruption) creates growth stories on steroid, 
as investors load on dreams of one big market (from disruption) on top of 
another (China). 
¨As with any steroid-driven story, there are downsides. 
¤Investors often over-estimate the possibility of success in big markets, because they 
fail to factor in new entrants and competition fully. 
¤The size of the Chinese market, in conjunction with local dominance, has also 
meant that Chinese tech companies prioritize domestic market growth, simply 
because it is easier . Clearly, global ambitions notwithstanding, Chinese tech 
companies have remained overwhelmingly Chinese.
14
2. Attuned to the Chinese Consumer
¨ Note that these companies were very much part of the pack, competing with 
foreign and domestic players, just a decade or two ago, but have managed to 
separate themselves from the rest, in the years since. 
¨ While there are many factors that may have contributed, one in particular stands
out. Rather than copying what successful US tech companies were doing to gain 
market share and profitability, these companies tailored their business models 
and product offerings to the Chinese market, adapting to what Chinese consumers 
cared about and wanted. 
¤ In my IPO post on Alibaba, I argued that the reason it was able to vanquish eBay and more 
established competitors was because it created what the Economist called the "world's 
greatest bazaar" and a payment mechanism for Chinese consumers felt comfortable using 
online. 
¤ Te nc e nt not only built a gaming platform specifically focused on Chinese consumers, butwas 
well ahead of its US tech competitors in building the world's leading social media platform in 
WeChat. 
¤ Didi was conceived as a cab-hailing company in 2012, but it too tailored its services to the local 
characteristics of the Chinese market, acquired its main domestic rival in KuadiDachein 2015, 
and forced Uber to capitulate and sell its Chinese segment in 2017.
15
3. Corporate Governance Nightmares
16
4. Beijing as (mostly) benevolent partner
17
With superpowers!
¨ Bigger, quicker and more permanent: Chinese government can not only change 
the competitive balance and game more decisively than its democratic 
counterparts, where making laws involves trade offs and bargains, but also make 
the changes more permanent, since regime change is not in the cards (at least the 
official ones). 
¨ With no checks & balances?Government rules and regulations, in most 
economies have torun a gauntlet of legal challenges, before becoming law, in a 
system where the judiciary can over rideor set aside government actions. 
¨ Growth versus Control: Sensible investors have always understood this power, and 
tried to price them in, but for much of the last decade that has led them to bid up 
Chinese companies, on the assumption that Beijing would tilt the playing field in 
favor of domestic companies, at the expense of foreign competitors, and that the 
governments' push for more economic growth would make it more likely to be an 
ally, rather than an adversary, to companies. That calculation, though, does miss 
the other quality that the Chinese government has always valued, which is 
control, and the tussle between the two (growth and control), in my view, 
explains much of the crackdown on Chinese tech.
18
Valuing Chinese Tech Companies
19
Acting on the valuations!
¨I would remove Didi and JD.comfrom the mix, largely because they 
are closer to fairly valued, than under valued. In fact, I would argue 
that looking at Didi's still to be worked out business model, and the 
huge consequences of government action or inaction, it is closer to 
being an option than a conventional valuation in equity. 
¨With Alibaba and Tencent, both of which are under valued in my 
base case (government as a net negative), I have three choices:
¤Buy both Alibaba and T encent, and hope that the "government as 
adversary" scenario does not play out for either .
¤Buy one of the two, based upon not just the valuation but also the rest of 
the company, including corporate governance and structure
¤Buy neither , because you believe that the "government as adversary" 
scenario is more likely than the "government as benefactor"
20
My Tencent Pick(s)
¨I am not inclined to double down on betting on how the 
Chinese government will behave in the future, andwill 
pick only one of these stocks.
¨I would pick Tencent over Alibaba for three reasons. 
¤The first is that Tencent is a more rounded company in terms of 
being in multiple businesses, and I do think that the WeChat 
platform, like the Facebook platform, adds a premium to their 
valuation. 
¤The second is that I prefer buying Tencent on the Hong Kong 
stock exchange to buying Alibaba's Cayman Islands shell 
company on the New York Stock Exchange. 
¤The third is that while I admire Jack Ma as an entrepreneur, I am 
believethat personality-driven companies have an added layer 
of risk, since that personality can draw attention and fire.
21
Tencent Investment Choices
¨ With my T encent investment, I faced a secondary choice of investing directly 
in Tencent or indirectly buying shares in Naspers, a South African holding 
company. 
¨ If you are puzzled about why Naspers enters the equation, the company 
acquired 46.5% of Tencent in return for a $32 million VC investment in 2001, 
and as Tencent surged in market capitalization, Naspers has become a proxy 
for the stock, with 80% or more of its value coming from its Tencent holdings.
¤The one difference is that the market is discounting the holding by 20-30%, in Naspers 
hands, reflecting concerns about taxes due and corporate governance at Naspers.
¤ That discount seems immune to almost every attempt by Naspers to make it disappear; 
Naspers spun off a Dutch entity, Prosus, and endowed it with a portion of the holding, in 
an attempt toeliminate the discount, but the discount persists, albeit a little smaller . 
¨ I decided that the potential upside of hoping that the discount narrows over 
time is exceeded by the downside of creating a layer between me and my 
Tencent investm ent.
22
Conclusion
¨ In valuation, we seldom consider the explicit effects of government policy and 
regulations on company value. 
¤ The rationale that is offered is either that the government's capacities to add and detract from 
value offset each other or that the current numbers for the company (growth, margin etc.) 
already incorporate the government effect. 
¤ While this is defensible, when government policy is stable, it breaks down when governments 
deviate from the script, and behave differently that they have in the past. 
¨ With Chinese tech companies, long used to the Chinese government being an 
ally in their search for growth and profits, the last year has been a rude 
awakening to a new reality of an activist and punitive version. 
¤ I believe that notwithstanding claims from Beijing that this latest crackdown is about 
protecting consumer privacy and increasing competition, it is more about the government 
exercising control over both companies and data. 
¤ I also believe that the adjustment in market prices that we have seen in Chinese tech 
companies is reflecting the fear that investors now have that the government will act as a 
constraint rather than an accelerate on future growth and profitability. 
¤ As markets recalibrate prices to reflect the new reality, there are opportunities for solid 
returns in this space, and I hope to one of the beneficiaries!
