Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/webcasts/corpgovHP/HPDEF14A.pdf

Use these links to rapidly review the document
TABLE OF CONTENTS
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
SCHEDULE 14A
Proxy Statement Pursuant to Section 14(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Amendment No.          )
 
 
Filed by the Registrant 

 
Filed by a Party other than the Registrant 
o
 
Check the appropriate box:
 
o
 
Preliminary Proxy Statement
 
o
 
Confidential, for Use of the Commission Only (as permitted by Rule 14a-6(e)(2))
 

 
Definitive Proxy Statement
 
o
 
Definitive Additional Materials
 
o
 
Soliciting Material Pursuant to §240.14a-12
 
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
 
(Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)
 
    
 
(Name of Person(s) Filing Proxy Statement, if other than the Registrant)
Payment of Filing Fee (Check the appropriate box):

 
No fee required.
o
 
Fee computed on table below per Exchange Act Rules 14a-6(i)(1) and 0-11.
 
 
(1)
 
Title of each class of securities to which transaction applies:
        
 
 
 
(2)
 
Aggregate number of securities to which transaction applies:
        
 
 
 
(3)
 
Per unit price or other underlying value of transaction computed pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 0-11 (set forth the amount on which the
filing fee is calculated and state how it was determined):
        
 
 
 
(4)
 
Proposed maximum aggregate value of transaction:
        
 
 
 
(5)
 
Total fee paid:
o
 
Fee paid previously with preliminary materials.
o
 
Check box if any part of the fee is offset as provided by Exchange Act Rule 0-11(a)(2) and identify the filing for which the offsetting fee was paid
previously. Identify the previous filing by registration 
statement number, or the Form or Schedule and the date of its filing.
 
 
(1)
 
Amount Previously Paid:
        
 
 
 
(2)
 
Form, Schedule or Registration Statement No.:
        
 
 
 
(3)
 
Filing Party:
        
 
 
 
(4)
 
Date Filed:
Table of Contents
To 
our Stockholders:
We 
are pleased to invite you to attend the annual meeting of stockholders of Hewlett-Packard Company to be held on March 20, 2013 at 2:00 p.m., local
time, at the Computer History 
Museum, 1401 N. Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View, California.
Details 
regarding admission to the meeting and the business to be conducted are more fully described in the accompanying Notice of Annual Meeting
and Proxy Statement.
This 
year, we are pleased to be again using the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule that allows companies to furnish their proxy materials
over the Internet. As a result, we are mailing to 
many of our stockholders a notice instead of a paper copy of this proxy statement and our 2012 Annual
Report. The notice contains instructions on how to access those documents over the Internet. The 
notice also contains instructions on how each of those
stockholders can receive a paper copy of our proxy materials, including this proxy statement, our 2012 Annual Report and a form of proxy card or
voting instruction card. All stockholders who do not receive a notice, including stockholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies of
proxy materials, will receive a paper copy of the 
proxy materials by mail unless they have previously requested delivery of proxy materials
electronically. Continuing to employ this distribution process will conserve natural resources and reduce the 
costs of printing and distributing our proxy
materials.
Your 
vote is important. Regardless of whether you plan to attend the annual meeting, we hope you will vote as soon as possible. You may vote by
proxy over the Internet or by telephone, or, if you 
received paper copies of the proxy materials by mail, you can also vote by mail by following the
instructions on the proxy card or voting instruction card. Voting over the Internet, by telephone or by 
written proxy or voting instruction card will
ensure your representation at the annual meeting regardless of whether you attend in person.
Thank 
you for your ongoing support of, and continued interest in, Hewlett-Packard Company.
Sincerely,
Raymond J. Lane
Chairman of the Board
Margaret C. Whitman
President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
Hewlett-Packard Company
3000 Hanover Street
Palo Alto, CA 94304
www.hp.com
Raymond J. Lane
Chairman of the Board
 
Margaret C. Whitman
President and Chief Executive Officer
Table of Contents
2013 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING AND PROXY STATEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS
 
1
PROXY STATEMENT SUMMARY
 
2
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
8
Proxy Materials
 
8
Voting Information
 
10
Annual Meeting Information
 
15
Stockholder Proposals, Director Nominations and Related Bylaw 
Provisions
 
16
Further Questions
 
17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND BOARD 
MATTERS
 
18
Board Leadership Structure
 
18
Board Structure and Committee Composition
 
19
Board Risk Oversight
 
22
Director Independence
 
23
Executive Sessions
 
25
Director Nominees
 
25
Board Policy Regarding Voting for Directors
 
26
Communications with the Board
 
26
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION AND STOCK OWNERSHIP 
GUIDELINES
 
28
PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON
 
33
PROPOSAL NO. 1 Election of Directors
 
33
PROPOSAL NO. 2 Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
40
PROPOSAL NO. 3 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
 
41
PROPOSAL NO. 4 Proposal to Amend HP's Bylaws to Permit Stockholder Proxy Access
 
42
PROPOSAL NO. 5 Approval of the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard 
Company 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan
 
45
PROPOSAL NO. 6 Stockholder Proposal Related to the Formation of a Human Rights 
Committee
 
53
PROPOSAL NO. 7 Stockholder Proposal Entitled "2013 Hewlett-Packard Resolution on 
Human Rights
Policy"
 
55
PROPOSAL NO. 8 Stockholder Proposal Entitled "Executives to Retain Significant 
Stock"
 
58
COMMON STOCK OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND 
MANAGEMENT
 
61
SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE
 
64
TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PERSONS
 
64
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
66
Compensation Discussion and Analysis
 
66
HR and Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation
 
94
Summary Compensation Table
 
95
Grants of Plan-Based Awards in Fiscal 2012
 
99
Outstanding Equity Awards at 2012 Fiscal Year-End
 
101
Option Exercises and Stock Vested in Fiscal 2012
 
104
Fiscal 2012 Pension Benefits Table
 
105
Fiscal 2012 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Table
 
107
Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control
 
109
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION
 
114
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
 
115
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
116
ANNEX A
 
A-1
Table of Contents
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY
3000 Hanover Street
Palo Alto, California 94304
(650) 857-1501
NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS 
 
Time and Date
 
2:00 p.m., local time, on Wednesday, March 20, 2013
Place
 
Computer History Museum, 1401 N. Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View, California
Items of
Business
 
(1)
 
To elect the 11 directors named in this proxy statement
 
 
(2)
 
To ratify the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending October 31, 2013
 
 
(3)
 
To conduct an advisory vote on executive compensation
 
 
(4)
 
To consider and vote upon a proposal to amend HP's Bylaws to permit stockholder proxy access
 
 
(5)
 
To approve the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
 
 
(6)
 
To consider and vote upon three stockholder proposals, if properly presented
 
 
(7)
 
To consider such other business as may properly come before the meeting
Adjournments
and
Postponements
 
Any action on the items of business described above may be considered at the annual meeting at the time and on the date specified
above or at any time and date to which the annual meeting may be properly adjourned or 
postponed.
Record Date
 
You are entitled to vote only if you were a Hewlett-Packard Company stockholder as of the close of business on January 22, 2013.
Meeting
Admission
 
You are entitled to attend the annual meeting only if you were a Hewlett-Packard Company stockholder as of the close of business on
January 22, 2013 or hold a valid proxy for the annual meeting. You should be 
prepared to present photo identification for admittance.
In addition, if you are a stockholder of record or hold your shares through the Hewlett-Packard Company 401(k) Plan or the
Hewlett-Packard Company 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, your 
ownership as of the record date will be verified prior to
admittance into the meeting. If you are not a stockholder of record but hold shares through a broker, trustee or nominee, you must
provide proof of beneficial ownership as of the record date, 
such as your most recent account statement prior to January 22, 2013 or
similar evidence of ownership. 
If you do not provide photo identification and comply with the other procedures outlined
above, you will not be 
admitted to the annual meeting.
 
 
The annual meeting will begin promptly at 2:00 p.m., local time. Check-in will begin at 12:30 p.m., local time, and you should allow
ample time for the check-in procedures.
Voting
 
Your vote is very important. Whether or not you plan to attend the annual meeting, we hope you will vote as soon as possible. You
may vote your shares via a toll-free telephone number or over the Internet. If you received a paper copy of a proxy or 
voting
instruction card by mail, you may submit your proxy or voting instruction card for the annual meeting by completing, signing, dating
and returning your proxy or voting instruction card in the pre-addressed envelope provided. For specific 
instructions on how to vote
your shares, please refer to the section entitled 
Questions and Answers—Voting Information 
beginning on page 10 of this proxy
statement.
This notice of annual meeting and proxy statement and form of proxy are being distributed and made available on or about February 1, 2013.
   
 
 
By order of the Board of Directors,
 
 
JOHN F. SCHULTZ
Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary
Table of Contents
PROXY STATEMENT SUMMARY 
The following is a summary of certain key disclosures in our proxy statement. This is only a summary, and it may not contain all of the information that is
important to you. 
For more complete information, please review the proxy statement as well as our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
Proposals to be Voted on and Board Voting Recommendations 
2
Time and Date
 
2:00 p.m., local time, on Wednesday, March 20, 2013
Place
 
Computer History Museum, 1401 N. Shoreline Boulevard, Mountain View, California
Record Date
 
January 22, 2013
Proposals
 
Recommendation
Election of directors
 
FOR EACH NOMINEE
Ratification of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the 2013 fiscal year
 
FOR
Advisory vote to approve executive compensation
 
FOR
Proposal to amend HP's Bylaws to permit stockholder proxy access
 
FOR
Approval of the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan
 
FOR
Stockholder proposal related to the formation of a human rights committee
 
AGAINST
Stockholder proposal entitled "2013 Hewlett-Packard Resolution on Human Rights Policy"
 
AGAINST
Stockholder proposal entitled "Executives to Retain Significant Stock"
 
AGAINST
Table of Contents
Proposal No. 1—Director Nominees 
              The following table provides summary information about each of the director nominees:
Proposal No. 2—Ratification of Auditors 
              We are asking our stockholders to ratify the selection of Ernst & Young LLP ("E&Y") as our independent registered public 
accounting firm for
fiscal 2013. Set forth below is a summary of E&Y's fees for services provided in fiscal 2012 and 2011:
3
Name
 
Age
 
HP
Director
Since
 
Noteworthy Experience
 
Independent
 
Other Public/Investment
Company Boards
Marc L. Andreessen
 
41
 
2009
 
Co-Founder of AH Capital Management, LLC, doing business as Andreessen
Horowitz
 
Yes
 
eBay Inc.; Facebook, Inc.
Shumeet Banerji
 
53
 
2011
 
Senior Partner, Booz & Company
 
Yes
 
 
Rajiv L. Gupta
 
67
 
2009
 
Chairman, Avantor Performance Materials, and Senior Advisor, New Mountain
Capital, LLC; former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rohm and Haas
Company
 
Yes
 
Delphi Automotive, PLC; Tyco
International Ltd.; The Vanguard
Group
John H. Hammergren
 
53
 
2005
 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, McKesson Corporation
 
Yes
 
McKesson Corporation
Raymond J. Lane
 
66
 
2010
 
Chairman of the Board, Hewlett-Packard Company; Managing Partner, Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers
 
No
 
 
Ann M. Livermore
 
54
 
2011
 
Former Executive Vice President, Enterprise Business, Hewlett-Packard Company
 
No
 
United Parcel Service, Inc.
Gary M. Reiner
 
58
 
2011
 
Operating Partner, General Atlantic; former Senior Vice President and Chief
Information Officer, General Electric Company
 
Yes
 
 
Patricia F. Russo
 
60
 
2011
 
Former Chief Executive Officer, Alcatel-Lucent
 
Yes
 
Alcoa, Inc.; General Motors
Company; KKR Management LLC;
Merck & Co., Inc.
G. Kennedy Thompson
 
62
 
2006
 
Principal, Aquiline Capital Partners LLC; former Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Wachovia Corporation
 
Yes
 
BNC Bancorp
Margaret C. Whitman
 
56
 
2011
 
President and Chief Executive Officer, Hewlett-Packard Company
 
No
 
The Procter & Gamble Company;
Zipcar, Inc.
Ralph V. Whitworth
 
57
 
2011
 
Principal, Relational Investors LLC
 
Yes
 
 
 
 
2012
 
2011
 
 
In millions
Audit Fees
 
$
30.6
 
$
30.5
Audit-Related Fees
 
 
14.8
 
 
13.9
Tax Fees
 
 
3.2
 
 
3.0
All Other Fees
 
 
2.2
 
 
0.0
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 
$
50.8
 
$
47.4
Table of Contents
Proposal No. 3—Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation 
              There are many challenges facing our business. It will take commitment from all the talented people throughout our company to address 
all of
these challenges. We believe that we have the right executive team in place to deliver our strategy, and we have designed our compensation programs to
enable us to attract, retain and reward 
our team for delivering value to stockholders over the long term.
              Our 
compensation programs must balance near-term results with long-term success and continue to encourage employees to build value through
innovation. To fulfill 
this mission, we have a pay-for-performance philosophy that forms the foundation for all decisions regarding compensation made
by HP management and the HR and Compensation 
Committee of our Board of Directors (the "Board"). In addition, our compensation decisions are
designed to facilitate strong corporate governance. Our focus on 
pay-for-performance and corporate governance ensures alignment with the interests of
stockholders as highlighted below:
              The Compensation Discussion and Analysis portion of this proxy statement contains a detailed description of our executive compensation
philosophy 
and programs, the compensation decisions the Committee has made under those programs and the factors considered in making those
decisions, focusing on the compensation of our named executive officers 
("NEOs") for fiscal 2012, who were:
•
Margaret C. Whitman, our President and Chief Executive Officer; 
•
Catherine A. Lesjak, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
4
 
ALIGNMENT WITH STOCKHOLDERS
 
  
Pay for Performance
 
 
Corporate Governance
 
Nearly 100% of total compensation for the CEO is
performance-based
 and 85% is 
equity-based
 
We generally 
do not enter
 into individual executive
compensation agreements
 
On average, 89% of total compensation for named
executive officers other than the CEO is 
performance-
based
 and 73% is 
equity-based
 
We 
devote significant time
 to succession planning and
leadership development efforts
 
We target compensation within a competitive range of
median
 and only deliver compensation above this level
when warranted by performance
 
We maintain a 
market-aligned
 severance program and do
not
 have automatic 
single-trigger 
equity vesting
 
We have 
removed
 discretionary incentive awards and
replaced them with specific management objectives
 
We utilize an 
independent
 compensation consultant
 
Seventy percent of target long-term incentive
compensation for NEOs is granted in the form of
performance-contingent stock options
 that only vest if
sustained stock 
price appreciation is achieved
 
We 
do not
 have compensation programs that 
encourage
imprudent risk
 
We provide 
no special or supplemental
 pension or health
benefits
 
We 
disclose
 our performance goals
 
We validate our 
pay-for-performance
 relationship on an
annual basis
 
We conduct a robust 
stockholder outreach
 program
Table of Contents
•
David A. Donatelli, Executive Vice President and General Manager of our Enterprise Group; 
•
John M. Hinshaw, our Executive Vice President of Technology and Operations; 
•
R. Todd Bradley, Executive Vice President of our Printing and Personal Systems Group; and 
•
Two former officers, Vyomesh I. Joshi, our former Executive Vice President, Imaging and Printing Group, and Giovanni G. 
Visentin, our
former Executive Vice President, Enterprise Services.
              Our 
fiscal 2012 financial performance was below expectations. The table below further illustrates our pay-for-performance philosophy by
showing the impact that this financial 
performance had on the compensation of the continuing NEOs in fiscal 2012:
5
 
Named
Executive
Officer
 
Fiscal 2012 Annual
Incentive Compensation
as a Percentage
of Target
(1)
 
Realized Value of Stock
Option
and Stock Awards
Vesting in
Fiscal 2012 as a
Percentage of
Target Value
(2)(3)
 
Total Shares Released in
Fiscal 2012 Under
Performance-Based
Restricted Unit Program
 
Margaret C.
Whitman
(4)
 
70.3%
 
9.6%
 
0
 
Catherine A.
Lesjak
 
50.3%
 
16.1%
 
0
 
David A.
Donatelli
 
50.3%
 
18.9%
 
0
 
John M.
Hinshaw
(5)
 
65.3%
 
—
 
0
 
R. Todd
Bradley
 
55.3%
 
11.8%
 
0
 
(1)
Excludes 
payouts in the following amounts under the Cash Conversion Cycle Bonus Plan: Ms. Lesjak: $51,563; Mr. Donatelli:
$51,563; 
Mr. Hinshaw: $40,625; and Mr. Bradley: $53,125. Ms. Whitman was not eligible to participate in the Cash Conversion
Cycle Bonus Plan. 
(2)
Realized 
value is calculated using the actual aggregate value of all stock option and stock awards that vested during fiscal 2012. The
realized value of 
vested stock options is calculated by multiplying the number of shares vested by the difference (but not less than
zero) between the exercise price and the closing price of our common stock on the 
vesting date without regard to actual option
exercise activity. The realized value of vested stock awards is calculated by multiplying the number of shares vested (excluding
dividend equivalent 
shares) by the closing price of our common stock on the vesting date. 
(3)
Target 
value is the hypothetical aggregate value of all stock options and stock awards that vested during fiscal 2012 had all of the
awards vested at 
target. The target value for vested stock options and vested stock awards equals the grant date fair value of those
awards. The target value of restricted stock units is calculated by multiplying the 
closing price of our common stock on the date of
grant by the number of units awarded. The target value of time-based option awards is calculated by multiplying the Black-Scholes
value determined as 
of the date of grant by the number of options awarded. The target value for vested performance-based
restricted unit ("PRU") awards is calculated by multiplying the number of PRUs granted by the 
closing price of our common stock
on the grant date.
Table of Contents
              We 
believe that we have created a compensation program deserving of stockholder support. Accordingly, we are asking for stockholder approval
of the compensation of our NEOs as disclosed 
in this proxy statement.
Proposal No. 4—Proposal to Amend HP's Bylaws to Permit Stockholder Proxy Access 
              The Board is proposing for approval by stockholders amendments to our Amended and Restated Bylaws that would permit stockholders to
include stockholder-nominated director candidates in our proxy materials.
Proposal No. 5—Approval of the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
              The Board recommends a vote FOR the approval of the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
(the 
"Newly Amended Plan"). The Newly Amended Plan provides for the following changes to the existing Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard
Company 2004 Stock Incentive 
Plan:
•
Makes an additional 172,500,000 shares of common stock available for issuance; 
•
Adds a provision to allow for a fungible share pool that reduces the share reserve much more rapidly when "full value" 
awards, such as
restricted stock and performance-based restricted units, are granted; 
•
Adds the ability to grant stock appreciation rights; 
•
Increases the share limits per individual under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; 
•
Adds a $550,000 value limit to the annual equity retainer that can be granted to non-employee directors in any 
plan year; 
•
Amends the performance criteria to include the performance criteria under the Hewlett-Packard Company 2005 
Pay-for-Results Plan; and 
•
Extends the expiration of the existing Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan for ten 
years from the
date of this annual meeting.
              The 
Board is asking stockholders to approve the Newly Amended Plan so that we may continue to use stock options, restricted stock, restricted
stock units and other share-based 
compensation awards to attract and retain employees.
6
(4)
Only 
one of Ms. Whitman's stock awards vested during fiscal 2012. That award was granted in April 2011 in connection with her
service as a 
non-employee member of the Board before she became Chief Executive Officer. None of Ms. Whitman's stock options
or stock awards granted to her in connection her service as President 
and Chief Executive Officer vested during fiscal 2012. 
(5)
No 
portion of Mr. Hinshaw's equity awards vested during fiscal 2012.
Table of Contents
Proposal No. 6—Stockholder Proposal Related to the Formation of a Human Rights Committee 
              The Board recommends a vote AGAINST a stockholder proposal seeking to have us establish a Human Rights Committee of the Board. The
Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board already appropriately and effectively oversees our policies and efforts relating to human rights, so
the establishment of an additional committee to 
oversee the same policies and practices is unnecessary and would not be in the best interests of our
stockholders.
Proposal No. 7—Stockholder Proposal Entitled "2013 Hewlett-Packard Resolution on Human Rights Policy" 
              The Board recommends a vote AGAINST a stockholder proposal seeking to have the Board review and amend, where applicable, within ten
months of the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, "HP's policies related to human rights that guide its international and U.S. operation." The proposal is
unnecessary because our global human rights 
program already reflects a sufficiently comprehensive understanding of human rights. In addition, the
Nominating and Governance Committee, the Board committee that is responsible for making 
recommendations and reporting to the full Board regarding
our policies with respect to including human rights, met during fiscal 2012 to review human rights issues facing our company and is expected 
to continue
to meet regularly in future years. Accordingly, we have already taken the action being sought by the proposal, rendering it unnecessary.
Proposal No. 8—Stockholder Proposal Entitled "Executives To Retain Significant Stock" 
              The Board recommends a vote AGAINST a stockholder proposal seeking to have us adopt a policy requiring that senior executives retain a
significant percentage of stock acquired through equity pay programs until reaching retirement age because our existing stock ownership guidelines and
other compensation policies already effectively 
facilitate significant stock ownership by our executives, and establishing holding requirements based on a
particular retirement age would not be in the best interests of our stockholders.
7
Table of Contents
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
Proxy Materials 
1.           Why am I receiving these materials?
              The Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") Board of Directors (the "Board") has made these materials available to you over the Internet or
delivered paper 
copies of 
these materials to you by mail in connection with HP's annual meeting of stockholders, which will take place on Wednesday,
March 20, 2013. As a stockholder, you are invited to attend the annual 
meeting and to vote on the items of business described in this proxy statement.
This proxy statement includes information that we are required to provide to you under the rules of the U.S. Securities 
and Exchange Commission and
that is designed to assist you in voting your shares.
2.           What is included in the proxy materials?
              The proxy materials include:
•
Our proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders; and 
•
Our 2012 Annual Report, which includes our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
October 31, 2012.
If 
you received a paper copy of these materials by mail, the proxy materials also include a proxy card or a voting instruction card for the annual meeting.
3.           What information is contained in this proxy statement?
              The information in this proxy statement relates to the proposals to be voted on at the annual meeting, the voting process, the Board and Board
committees, the 
compensation of HP's directors and certain executive officers for fiscal 2012 and other required information.
4.           Why did I receive a notice in the mail regarding the Internet availability of the proxy materials instead of a paper copy of the proxy
materials?
              This year, we are pleased to be again using the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rule that allows companies to furnish their proxy
materials 
over the 
Internet. As a result, we are mailing to many of our stockholders a notice about the Internet availability of the proxy materials instead
of a paper copy of the proxy materials. All stockholders 
receiving the notice will have the ability to access the proxy materials over the Internet and
request to receive a paper copy of the proxy materials by mail. Instructions on how to access the proxy 
materials over the Internet or to request a paper
copy may be found in the notice. In addition, the notice contains instructions on how you may request to access proxy materials in printed form by 
mail
or electronically on an ongoing basis.
5.           Why didn't I receive a notice in the mail about the Internet availability of the proxy materials?
              We are providing some of our stockholders, including stockholders who have previously requested to receive paper copies of the proxy
materials and 
some of our 
stockholders who are living outside of the United States, with paper copies of the proxy materials instead of a notice about
the Internet availability of the proxy materials.
              In 
addition, we are providing notice of the Internet availability of the proxy materials by e-mail to those stockholders who have previously
elected delivery of the proxy 
materials electronically. Those
8
Table of Contents
stockholders 
should have received an e-mail containing a link to the website where those materials are available and a link to the proxy voting website.
6.           How can I access the proxy materials over the Internet?
              Your notice about the Internet availability of the proxy materials, proxy card or voting instruction card will contain instructions on how 
to:
•
View our proxy materials for the annual meeting on the Internet; and 
•
Instruct us to send our future proxy materials to you electronically by e-mail.
Our 
proxy materials are also available on our website at 
www.hp.com/investor/stockholdermeeting2013
.
              Your 
notice of Internet availability of proxy materials, proxy card or voting instruction card will contain instructions on how you may request
to access proxy materials electronically 
on an ongoing basis. Choosing to access your future proxy materials electronically will help us conserve natural
resources and reduce the costs of distributing our proxy materials. If you choose to 
access future proxy materials electronically, you will receive an e-
mail with instructions containing a link to the website where those materials are available and a link to the proxy 
voting website. Your election to access
proxy materials by e-mail will remain in effect until you terminate it.
7.           How may I obtain a paper copy of the proxy materials?
              Stockholders receiving a notice about the Internet availability of the proxy materials will find instructions about how to obtain a paper copy of
the 
proxy 
materials on their notice. Stockholders receiving notice of the availability of the proxy materials by e-mail will find instructions about how to
obtain a paper copy of the proxy materials 
as part of that e-mail. All stockholders who do not receive a notice or an e-mail will receive a paper copy of
the proxy materials by mail.
8.           I share an address with another stockholder, and we received only one paper copy of the proxy materials. How may I obtain an
additional copy of the proxy 
materials?
              If you share an address with another stockholder, you may receive only one set of proxy materials unless you have provided contrary
instructions. If 
you wish to 
receive a separate set of proxy materials now, please request the additional copy by contacting Innisfree M&A Incorporated
("Innisfree") at:
(877) 750-5838 
(U.S. and Canada)
(412) 232-3651 (International)
E-mail: info@innisfreema.com
A 
separate set of proxy materials will be sent promptly following receipt of your request.
              If 
you are a stockholder of record and wish to receive a separate set of proxy materials in the future, please contact HP's transfer agent. See
Question 27 below.
              If 
you are the beneficial owner of shares held through a broker, trustee or other nominee and you wish to receive a separate set of proxy
materials in the future, please call Broadridge 
Financial Solutions, Inc. at:
(800) 542-1061
9
Table of Contents
              All 
stockholders also may write to us at the address below to request a separate copy of these materials:
NASDAQ 
OMX
Print and Distribution Ctr.
325 Donald Lynch Blvd
Marlborough, MA 01752
(866) 869-5335
9.           What should I do if I receive more than one notice or e-mail about the Internet availability of the proxy materials or more than one
paper copy of 
the proxy materials?
              You may receive more than one notice, more than one e-mail or more than one paper copy of the proxy materials, including multiple paper
copies of 
this proxy statement and multiple proxy cards or voting instruction cards. For example, if you hold your shares in more than one brokerage
account, you may receive a separate notice, a separate 
e-mail or a separate voting instruction card for each brokerage account in which you hold shares.
If you are a stockholder of record and your shares are registered in more than one name, 
you may receive more than one notice, more than one e-mail or
more than one proxy card. To vote all of your shares by proxy, you must complete, sign, date and return each proxy card and 
voting instruction card
that you receive and vote over the Internet the shares represented by each notice and e-mail that you receive (unless you have requested and received a
proxy card 
or voting instruction card for the shares represented by one or more of those notices or e-mails).
10.         How may I obtain a copy of HP's 2012 Form 10-K and other financial information?
              
Stockholders may request a free copy of our 2012 Annual Report, which includes our 2012 Form 10-K, 
from:
NASDAQ OMX
Print and Distribution Ctr.
325 Donald Lynch Blvd
Marlborough, MA 01752
(866) 869-5335
www.hp.com/investor/informationrequest
              
Alternatively, stockholders can access the 2012 Annual Report, which includes our 2012 Form 10-K and other financial information,
on HP's 
Investor Relations website at:
www.hp.com/investor/home
              HP 
also will furnish any exhibit to the 2012 Form 10-K if specifically requested.
Voting Information 
11.         What items of business will be voted on at the annual meeting?
              The items of business scheduled to be voted on at the annual meeting are:
•
The election of directors; 
•
The ratification of the appointment of HP's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2012 fiscal year; 
•
The advisory vote to approve executive compensation;
10
Table of Contents
•
A proposal to amend HP's Bylaws to permit stockholder proxy access; 
•
The approval of the Second Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan; and 
•
The consideration of three stockholder proposals, if properly presented.
              We 
also will consider any other business that properly comes before the annual meeting. See Question 23 below.
12.         How does the Board recommend that I vote?
              
Our Board recommends that you vote your shares FOR each of the nominees for election to the Board, FOR the ratification of the
appointment of HP's independent registered public accounting firm, FOR the approval of the compensation of HP's named executive
officers, FOR the proxy access proposal, FOR the approval of the Second 
Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan, and AGAINST each of the stockholder proposals.
13.         What is the difference between holding shares as a stockholder of record and as a beneficial owner?
              Most HP stockholders hold their shares through a broker, trustee or other nominee rather than directly in their own name. As summarized
below, there 
are some 
distinctions between shares held of record and those owned beneficially.
•
Stockholder of Record
—If your shares are registered directly 
in your name with HP's transfer agent, you are considered, with respect
to those shares, the "stockholder of record." As the stockholder of record, you have the right to grant your voting proxy 
directly to HP
or to a third party, or to vote in person at the meeting. 
•
Beneficial Owner
—If your shares are held in a brokerage 
account, by a trustee or by another nominee, you are considered the
"beneficial owner" of those shares. As the beneficial owner of those shares, you have the right to direct your broker, trustee or 
nominee
how to vote and you also are invited to attend the annual meeting. However, because a beneficial owner is not the stockholder of record,
you will not be entitled to vote your 
beneficially-owned shares in person at the meeting unless you obtain a "legal proxy" from the
broker, trustee or nominee that holds your shares, giving you the right to vote the shares at the meeting.
14.         What shares can I vote?
              Each holder of shares of HP common stock issued and outstanding as of the close of business on January 22, 2013, the record date for the
annual 
meeting, 
is entitled to cast one vote per share on all items being voted upon at the annual meeting. You may vote all shares owned by you as of
this time, including (1) shares held directly in your name 
as the stockholder of record, including shares purchased through HP's Dividend Reinvestment
Plan and HP's employee stock purchase plans and shares held through HP's Direct Registration Service, and 
(2) shares held for you as the beneficial
owner through a broker, trustee or other nominee. On the record date, HP had approximately 1,952,722,614 shares of common stock issued and
outstanding.
15.         How can I vote my shares in person at the annual meeting?
              Shares held in your name as the stockholder of record may be voted in person at the annual meeting. Shares for which you are the beneficial
owner but 
not the 
stockholder of record may be voted in person at the annual meeting only if you obtain a legal proxy from the broker, trustee or
nominee
11
Table of Contents
that 
holds your shares giving you the right to vote the shares. Even if you plan to attend the annual meeting, we recommend that you also vote by proxy
as described below so that your vote will be 
counted if you later decide not to attend the meeting.
16.         How can I vote my shares without attending the annual meeting?
              Whether you hold shares directly as the stockholder of record or through a broker, trustee or other nominee as the beneficial owner, you may
direct 
how your 
shares are voted without attending the annual meeting. There are three ways to vote by proxy:
•
By Internet
—Stockholders who have received a notice of the 
Internet availability of the proxy materials by mail may submit proxies
over the Internet by following the instructions on the notice. Stockholders who have received notice of the Internet 
availability of the
proxy materials by e-mail may submit proxies over the Internet by following the instructions included in the e-mail. Stockholders who
have received a paper 
copy of a proxy card or voting instruction card by mail may submit proxies over the Internet by following the
instructions on the proxy card or voting instruction card. 
•
By Telephone
—Stockholders of record who live in the United 
States or Canada may submit proxies by telephone by calling 1-866-209-
1711 and following the instructions. Stockholders of record who have received a notice of the 
Internet availability of the proxy materials
by mail must have the control number that appears on their notice available when voting. Stockholders of record who received notice of
the Internet 
availability of the proxy materials by e-mail must have the control number included in the e-mail available when voting.
Stockholders of record who have received a proxy card 
by mail must have the control number that appears on their proxy card available
when voting. Most stockholders who are beneficial owners of their shares living in the United States or Canada and who 
have received a
voting instruction card by mail may vote by phone by calling the number specified on the voting instruction card provided by their
broker, trustee or nominee. Those stockholders should 
check the voting instruction card for telephone voting availability. 
•
By Mail
—Stockholders who have received a paper copy of a proxy 
card or voting instruction card by mail may submit proxies by
completing, signing and dating their proxy card or voting instruction card and mailing it in the accompanying pre-addressed 
envelope.
17.         What is the deadline for voting my shares?
              If you hold shares as the stockholder of record, or through the Hewlett-Packard Company 2011 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"),
your vote by 
proxy must 
be received before the polls close at the annual meeting.
              If 
you hold shares in the Hewlett-Packard Company 401(k) Plan (the "HP 401(k) Plan"), your voting instructions must be received by
11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on March 17, 
2013 for the trustee to vote your shares.
              If 
you are the beneficial owner of shares held through a broker, trustee or other nominee, please follow the voting instructions provided by
your broker, trustee or nominee.
18.         May I change my vote?
              You may change your vote at any time prior to the vote at the annual meeting, except that any change to your voting instructions for the HP
401(k) 
Plan must be 
provided by 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on March 17, 2013 as described above. If you are the stockholder of record, you may
change your vote by granting a new proxy bearing a later date 
(which automatically revokes the earlier proxy), by
12
Table of Contents
providing 
a written notice of revocation to the Corporate Secretary at the address below in Question 30 prior to your shares being voted, or by attending
the annual meeting and voting in 
person. Attendance at the meeting will not cause your previously granted proxy to be revoked unless you specifically
make that request. For shares you hold beneficially in the name of a broker, 
trustee or other nominee, you may change your vote by submitting new
voting instructions to your broker, trustee or nominee, or, if you have obtained a legal proxy from your broker or nominee giving 
you the right to vote
your shares, by attending the meeting and voting in person.
19.         Is my vote confidential?
              Proxy instructions, ballots and voting tabulations that identify individual stockholders are handled in a manner that protects your voting
privacy. 
Your vote 
will not be disclosed, either within HP or to third parties, except: (1) as necessary to meet applicable legal requirements; (2) to allow
for the tabulation of votes and certification of 
the vote; and (3) to facilitate a successful proxy solicitation. Occasionally, stockholders provide on their
proxy card written comments, which are then forwarded to HP management.
20.         How are votes counted?
              In the election of directors, you may vote "FOR," "AGAINST" or "ABSTAIN" with respect to each of the nominees. If you elect to abstain in
the election 
of 
directors, the abstention will not impact the election of directors. In tabulating the voting results for the election of directors, only "FOR"
and "AGAINST" votes are counted. You also may cumulate 
your votes as described in Question 22.
              For 
the other items of business, you may vote "FOR," "AGAINST" or "ABSTAIN." For these other items of business, if you elect to abstain,
the abstention will have the same effect as an 
"AGAINST" vote.
              If 
you are the beneficial owner of shares held in the name of a broker, trustee or other nominee and do not provide that broker, trustee or other
nominee with voting instructions, your 
shares may constitute "broker non-votes." Generally, broker non-votes occur on a matter when a broker is not
permitted to vote on that matter without instructions from the 
beneficial owner and instructions are not given. Under the rules of the New York Stock
Exchange, brokers, trustees or other nominees may generally vote on routine matters but cannot vote on 
non-routine matters. Only Proposal No. 2
(ratifying the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm) is considered a routine matter. The other proposals are not 
considered
routine matters, and without your instructions, your broker cannot vote your shares. In tabulating the voting results for any particular proposal, shares
that constitute broker 
non-votes are not considered entitled to vote on that proposal. Thus, broker non-votes will not affect the outcome of any matter
being voted on at the meeting, assuming that a 
quorum is obtained.
              If 
you provide specific instructions with regard to certain items, your shares will be voted as you instruct on such items. If you vote by proxy
card or voting instruction card and sign 
the card without giving specific instructions, your shares will be voted in accordance with the recommendations
of the Board (FOR all of HP's nominees to the Board, FOR ratification of the appointment 
of HP's independent registered public accounting firm, FOR
the approval of the compensation of HP's named executive officers, FOR the proxy access proposal, FOR the approval of the Second Amended and
Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and AGAINST each of the stockholder proposals).
              For 
any shares you hold in the HP 401(k) Plan, if your voting instructions are not received by 11:59 p.m., Eastern time, on March 17, 2013,
your shares will be voted in 
proportion to the way the
13
Table of Contents
shares 
held by the other HP 401(k) Plan participants are voted, except as may be otherwise required by law.
21.         What is the voting requirement to approve each of the proposals?
              In the election of directors, each director will be elected by the vote of the majority of votes cast with respect to that director nominee. A
majority of votes 
cast means that the number of votes cast for a nominee's election must exceed the number of votes cast against such nominee's
election. Each nominee receiving more votes "for" his or her election than 
votes "against" his or her election will be elected. Approval of Proposal No. 4
requires the affirmative vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66
2
/
3
%) 
of the outstanding shares of HP common stock entitled to be voted on the
proposal at the annual meeting. Approval of each of the other proposals requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the 
shares present, in person or
represented by proxy, and entitled to vote on that proposal at the annual meeting, provided that Proposal No. 5 will only be approved if the total votes
cast on the 
proposal represents more than 50% of all shares entitled to vote on the proposal.
22.         Is cumulative voting permitted for the election of directors?
              In the election of directors, you may elect to cumulate your vote. Cumulative voting allows you to allocate among the director nominees, as you
see 
fit, the 
total number of votes equal to the number of director positions to be filled multiplied by the number of shares you hold. For example, if you
own 100 shares of stock and there are 11 directors to be 
elected at the annual meeting, you may allocate 1,100 "FOR" votes (11 times 100) among as
few or as many of the 11 nominees to be voted on at the annual meeting as you choose. You may not 
cumulate your votes against a nominee.
              If 
you are a stockholder of record and choose to cumulate your votes, you will need to submit a proxy card or, if you vote in person at the
annual meeting, you will need to submit a 
ballot and make an explicit statement of your intent to cumulate your votes, either by so indicating in writing
on the proxy card or by indicating in writing on your ballot when voting at the annual 
meeting. If you hold shares beneficially through a broker, trustee
or other nominee and wish to cumulate votes, you should contact your broker, trustee or nominee.
              If 
you vote by proxy card or voting instruction card and sign your card with no further instructions, Margaret C. Whitman, Catherine A. Lesjak
and John F. Schultz, as proxy holders, may 
cumulate and 
cast your votes in favor of the election of some or all of the applicable nominees in their sole
discretion, except that none of your votes will be cast for any nominee as to whom you vote against or 
abstain from voting.
              Cumulative 
voting applies only to the election of directors.
23.         What happens if additional matters are presented at the annual meeting?
              Other than the eight items of business described in this proxy statement, we are not aware of any other business to be acted upon at the annual
meeting. If you 
grant a proxy, the persons named as proxy holders, Margaret C. Whitman, Catherine A. Lesjak and John F. Schultz, will have the
discretion to vote your shares on any additional matters properly 
presented for a vote at the meeting. If for any reason any of the nominees named in this
proxy statement is not available as a candidate for director, the persons named as proxy holders will vote your 
proxy for such other candidate or
candidates as may be nominated by the Board.
24.         Who will serve as inspector of elections?
              The inspector of elections will be a representative from an independent firm, IVS Associates, Inc.
14
Table of Contents
25.         Who will bear the cost of soliciting votes for the annual meeting?
              HP is making this solicitation and will pay the entire cost of preparing, assembling, printing, mailing and distributing the notices and these
proxy 
materials 
and soliciting votes. In addition to the mailing of the notices and these proxy materials, the solicitation of proxies or votes may be made
in person, by telephone or by electronic communication by 
our directors, officers and employees, who will not receive any additional compensation for
such solicitation activities. We also have hired Innisfree to assist us in the distribution of proxy 
materials and the solicitation of votes described above.
We will pay Innisfree a base fee of $20,000 plus customary costs and expenses for these services. HP has agreed to indemnify Innisfree against 
certain
liabilities arising out of or in connection with its agreement. We also 
will reimburse brokerage houses and other custodians, nominees and fiduciaries for
forwarding proxy and solicitation materials to stockholders.
26.         Where can I find the voting results of the annual meeting?
              We intend to announce preliminary voting results at the annual meeting and publish final results in a Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") within four business days of the annual meeting.
27.         What if I have questions for HP's transfer agent?
              Please contact HP's transfer agent, at the phone number or address listed below, with questions concerning stock certificates, dividend checks,
transfer of 
ownership or other matters pertaining to your stock account.
Wells 
Fargo Bank, N.A.
Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
(800) 286-5977 (U.S. and Canada)
(651) 450-4064 (International)
              A 
dividend reinvestment and stock purchase program is also available through HP's transfer agent. For information about this program, please
contact HP's transfer agent as follows:
Wells 
Fargo Bank, N.A.
Shareowner Services
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
(800) 286-5977 (U.S. and Canada)
(651) 450-4064 (International)
Annual Meeting Information 
28.         How can I attend the annual meeting?
              You are entitled to attend the annual meeting only if you were an HP stockholder or joint holder as of the close of business on January 22,
2013 
or if you 
hold a valid proxy for the annual meeting. You must present photo identification for admittance. If you are a stockholder of record or
hold your shares through the HP 401(k) Plan or the ESPP, your 
name will be verified against the list of stockholders of record or plan participants on
the record date prior to your admission to the annual meeting. If you are not a stockholder of record but hold 
shares through a broker, trustee or
nominee, you must provide proof of beneficial ownership on the record date, such as your most recent account statement prior to January 22, 2013 or
other 
similar evidence of ownership.
15
Table of Contents
              
If you do not provide photo identification or comply with the other procedures outlined above, you will not be admitted to the
annual 
meeting.
              The 
meeting will begin promptly at 2:00 p.m., local time. Check-in will begin at 12:30 p.m., local time, and you should allow ample time for the
check-in procedures.
29.         How many shares must be present or represented to conduct business at the annual meeting?
              The quorum requirement for holding the annual meeting and transacting business is that holders of a majority of shares of HP common stock
entitled to 
vote must 
be present in person or represented by proxy. Both abstentions and broker non-votes described previously in Question 20 are
counted for the purpose of determining the presence of a 
quorum.
Stockholder Proposals, Director Nominations and Related Bylaw Provisions 
30.         What is the deadline to propose actions for consideration at next year's annual meeting of stockholders?
              You may submit proposals for consideration at future stockholder meetings. For a stockholder proposal to be considered for inclusion in HP's
proxy 
statement for 
the annual meeting next year, the Corporate Secretary must receive the written proposal at our principal executive offices no later
than October 4, 2013. Such proposals also must comply with 
SEC regulations under Rule 14a-8 regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in
company-sponsored proxy materials. Proposals should be addressed to:
Corporate 
Secretary
Hewlett-Packard Company
3000 Hanover Street
Palo Alto, California 94304
Fax: (650) 857-4837
              For 
a stockholder proposal that is not intended to be included in HP's proxy statement under Rule 14a-8, the stockholder must provide the
information required by HP's 
Bylaws and give timely notice to the Corporate Secretary in accordance with HP's Bylaws, which, in general, require that
the notice be received by the Corporate 
Secretary:
•
not earlier than the close of business on November 20, 2013; and 
•
not later than the close of business on December 20, 2013.
              If 
the date of the stockholder meeting is moved more than 30 days before or 60 days after the anniversary of the HP annual meeting for the
prior year, then notice of a 
stockholder proposal that is not intended to be included in HP's proxy statement under Rule 14a-8 must be received no earlier
than the close of business 120 days prior to the 
meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the following two dates:
•
90 days prior to the meeting; and 
•
10 days after public announcement of the meeting date.
31.         How may I recommend or nominate individuals to serve as directors?
              You may recommend director candidates for consideration by the Board's Nominating and Governance Committee. Any such
recommendations should include 
the nominee's 
name and
16
Table of Contents
qualifications 
for Board membership and should be directed to the Corporate Secretary at the address of our principal executive offices set forth in
Question 30 above.
              In 
addition, HP's Bylaws permit stockholders to nominate directors for election at an annual stockholder meeting. To nominate a director, the
stockholder must deliver the information 
required by HP's Bylaws.
32.         What is the deadline to recommend or nominate individuals to serve as directors?
              A stockholder may send a recommended director candidate's name and information to the Board at any time. Generally, such proposed
candidates are 
considered at 
the first or second Board meeting prior to the issuance of the proxy statement for HP's annual meeting.
              To 
nominate an individual for election at an annual stockholder meeting, the stockholder must give timely notice to the Corporate Secretary in
accordance with HP's Bylaws, which, in 
general, require that the notice be received by the Corporate Secretary between the close of business on
November 20, 2013 and the close of business on December 20, 2013, unless the 
annual meeting is moved by more than 30 days before or 60 days after
the anniversary of the prior year's annual meeting, in which case the deadline will be as described in 
Question 30.
33.         How may I obtain a copy of the provisions of HP's Bylaws regarding stockholder proposals and director nominations?
              You may contact the Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices for a copy of the relevant Bylaws provisions regarding the
requirements for 
making 
stockholder proposals and nominating director candidates. HP's Bylaws also are available on HP's website at
www.hp.com/hpinfo/investor/bylaws
.
Further Questions 
34.         Who can help answer my questions?
              If you have any questions about the annual meeting or how to vote or revoke your proxy, you should contact HP's proxy solicitor:
Innisfree 
M&A Incorporated
501 Madison Avenue, 20
th
 Floor
New York, New York 10022
Stockholders: (877) 750-5838 (U.S. and Canada)
(412) 232-3651 (International)
Banks and brokers (call collect):
(212) 750-5833
17
Table of Contents
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AND BOARD MATTERS 
              HP is committed to maintaining the highest standards of business conduct and corporate governance, which we believe are essential to 
running
our business efficiently, serving our stockholders well and maintaining HP's integrity in the marketplace. HP maintains a code of business conduct and
ethics for directors, officers (including 
HP's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) and employees,
known as our Standards of Business Conduct. HP also has adopted Corporate Governance 
Guidelines, which, in conjunction with the Certificate of
Incorporation, Bylaws and respective charters of the committees of the Board of Directors, form the framework for the governance of HP. All of 
these
documents are available at 
www.hp.com/investor/corpgovernance/highlights
 for review, downloading and printing. HP will post on this website any
amendments to the 
Standards of Business Conduct or waivers of the Standards of Business Conduct for directors and executive officers. Stockholders
may request free printed copies of the HP Certificate of Incorporation, 
Bylaws, Standards of Business Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and
charters of the committees of the Board of Directors by contacting:
Hewlett-Packard 
Company
Attention: Investor Relations
3000 Hanover Street
Palo Alto, California 94304
(866) 869-5335
www.hp.com/investor/home
Board Leadership Structure 
              The Board of Directors ("Board") is currently led by executive Chairman Raymond J. Lane. In addition, the independent directors of the 
Board
have designated Rajiv L. Gupta to serve as Lead Independent Director. This reflects the Board's preferred governance structure of a separate Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), but the 
Board's leadership structure may vary in the future as circumstances warrant. The Board believes that this
structure best serves the interests of stockholders because it allows our CEO to focus 
primarily on our business strategy and operations and leverage the
experience of the Chairman.
              The 
executive Chairman oversees the planning of the annual Board calendar, and, with the CEO, in consultation with the other directors,
schedules and sets the agenda for meetings of the 
Board and leads the discussions at such meetings. In addition, the executive Chairman provides
guidance and oversight to management, helps with the formulation and implementation of HP's strategic 
plans and acts as the Board's liaison to
management. The executive Chairman also chairs HP's annual meetings of stockholders, is available to speak on behalf of the Board in limited
circumstances, and 
performs such other functions and responsibilities as set forth in HP's Corporate Governance Guidelines or as requested by the
Board from time to time.
              The 
Lead Independent Director presides at all meetings of the Board at which the Chairman is not present, including at executive sessions of
the independent directors, serves as a 
liaison between the Chairman and the independent directors, approves information sent to the Board, approves
Board meeting agendas and schedules to see that there is sufficient time to cover all 
agenda items, assists the Chairmen of the Board committees in
preparing agendas for the respective committee meetings, is available for consultation and direct communication with major stockholders 
upon request,
and performs such other functions and responsibi
