Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2025.pdf

Change is the only constant!
§In my first two data posts for 2025, I looked at the strong year 
that US equities had in 2024, but a very good year for the 
overall market does not always translate into equivalent 
returns across segments of the market. 
§I will remain focused on US equities, but classify them first by 
sector, to see return variations across different industry 
groupings, and then follow up by looking at companies broken 
down by market capitalization. I also look how much the market 
owes its winnings to its biggest companies, with a focus on the 
Mag Seven.
§In the next section, I look at stock returns for companies in 
different price to book deciles, in a loose assessment of the 
value premium. 
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
Aswath Damodaran 6
Aswath Damodaran 7
§Momentum story: A reasonable argument can be made that increasing 
access to information and easing trading, for both individual and 
institutional investing, with a boost from social media, has increased 
momentum, and the stock prices of large cap stocks. The dark side of this 
story, though, is that if the momentum ever shifted, these large cap stocks 
could lose trillions in value.
§Passive investing: Since many passive investing vehicles hold all ofthe 
stocks in the index in proportion to their market cap, there presence and 
growth creates fund flows into large cap stocks that keeps their prices 
elevated.Here again, the dark side is that if fund flows reversed and 
became negative, i.e., investors start pulling money out of markets, large 
cap stocks will be disproportionately hurt.
§Industry economics: In writing about the disruption unleashed by tech 
start-ups, especially in the last two decades, I noted the they have changed 
industry economics in many established businesses, replacing splintered, 
dispersed competition with consolidation. As industries consolidate, we 
are likely to see them dominated by a few, big winners, which will play out 
in the stock market as well
¨Aswath Damodaran ¨9
Aswath Damodaran 10
Aswath Damodaran 11
§Price to book ≠ Value: It is true that using low price to book as an 
indicator of value is simplistic, and that there are multiple other factors 
(good management, earnings quality, moats) to consider before making a 
value judgment. It is also true that as the market's center of gravity has 
shifted towards companies with intangible assets, the troubles that 
accountants have had in putting a number on intangible asset investments 
has made book value less and less meaningful at companies, making it a 
poorer and poorer indicator of what a company's assets are worth.
§Momentum: In markets, return to value investing has generally moved 
inversely with the strength of momentum. Thus, the same forces that have 
strengthened the power of momentum, that we noted in the context of the 
fading of the small cap premium, may also have diluted the power of value 
investing.
§Structural Shifts: At the heart of the premium earned by low price to book 
ratios is mean reversion, with the high returns earned by these stocks 
coming from moving towards the average over time. While that worked in 
the twentieth century, when the US was the most mean-reverting and 
predictable market/economy of all time, it has lost its power as disruption 
and globalization have weakened mean reversion.
§For investors:Active investing, as practiced today, since much of it is 
based upon history and mean reversion. A mutual fund manager who 
screens stocks for low PE ratios and high growth, while demanding a hefty 
management fee, deserves to be replaced by an ETF or index fund, and 
that displacement will continue, pruning the active management 
population.
§For traders:Traders live and die on momentum, and as market momentum 
continues to get stronger, making money will look easy, until momentum 
shifts. 
§For companies:Companies that measure their success through stock 
market returns may find that the market pricier has become a noisier 
judge of their actions.Thus, a company that takes a value destructive path 
that feeds into momentum may find the market rewarding it with a higher 
price, but it is playing a dangerous game that could turn against it.
§For regulators:With momentum comes volatility and corrections, as 
momentum shifts, and those corrections will cause some ito lose money, 
perhaps even their life savings. Regulators will feel the pressure to step in 
and protect these investors from their overreach, but it will be futile, since 
literally any investment can be an instrument for speculation.
