Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate5for2018.pdf

COUNTRY RISK UPDATE: JANUARY 
2018 DATA UPDATE 5
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Set Up
¨ There is more risk in investing in some countries 
than others. It follows that the price of taking equity 
risk, i.e., the equity risk premium will vary across 
countries.
¨ A company’s risk exposure comes from where it 
does business, not just where it is incorporated and 
traded. 
¨ As globalization becomes the norm, not the 
exception, even purely domestic investors have to 
think about country risk.
3
Sovereign Default Risk Measure 1: 
Sovereign Ratings
4
Sovereign Default Risk Measure 2: 
Sovereign CDS Spreads
5
Equity Risk Measure 1: Risk Scores
¨ The World Bank, Political Risk Services (PRS) and the 
Economist, among others, try to measure the total 
risk in countries. 
¨ Those scores have no standardization and cannot be 
compared, but they still represent more 
comprehensive measures of risk than sovereign 
ratings or CDS spreads.
6
PRS Scores
7
Equity Risk Premiums
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
ERP – A Global Picture
Black #: Total ERP
Red #: Country risk premium
Regional #: GDP weighted average
ERP : Jan 2018
10
From Country to Company Risk
¨ A company's risk does not come from where it is 
incorporated, but where it does business. 
¨ If we adopt this perspective, it is clear that to value a 
company, you need to see its risk exposure to 
different countries, either because it has its 
production and operations in those countries or 
because it sells its products or services there. 
¨ That risk exposure, in conjunction with the equity 
risk premiums of the countries estimated in the 
earlier section, can be used to compute the 
company's equity risk premium.
11
Implications
¨ A company cannot change its risk profile by delisting in one 
market and re-listing in another: It is a common play for 
emerging market companies to delist on their "risky" local 
markets and to re-list on a more developed markets. 
¨ A company's equity risk premium should change, as its 
geographic exposure changes: In estimating the equity risk 
premium for a company today, we need to consider where it 
operates today. 
¨ When multinationals assess projects, their hurdle rates 
should vary across geographies: When multinationals assess 
hurdle rates for projects, those hurdle rates should vary, 
depending upon where a project will be, even if the hurdle 
rates are estimated in the same currency.
12
In conclusion..
¨ If, as the Chinese symbol for crisis suggests, Danger + 
Opportunity = Risk, it is not surprising that the most risky 
parts of the world also provide the most potential for 
growth. 
¨ By demanding higher equity risk premiums for investing 
in these parts of the world, I am not suggesting that you 
hold back from investing but only that you demand 
enough of a premium for exposing yourself to additional 
risk. 
¨ After all, investing is never be bungee jumping, taking 
risk for the sake of taking risk.
