Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Alternatives.pdf

VC, PE and Crypto
§It is true that most investing lessons are directed at those who invest in 
stocks and bonds, and mostly with long-only strategies. 
§It is also true that in the process, we are ignoring vast swaths of the 
investment universe, fromother asset classes(real estate, collectibles, 
cryptos) toprivate holdings(VC, PE) tostrategies that short stocks or use 
derivatives(hedge funds). 
§In the last two decades, alternative investments have entered the 
mainstream, first with choices directed at institutional investors, but more 
recently, in offerings for individual investors. 
§Without giving too much away, the sales pitch for adding alternative 
investments to a portfolio composed primarily of stocks and bonds is that 
the melding will create abetter risk-return tradeoff, albeit with two 
different rationales. 
§The first is that they havelow correlationswith financial assets (stocks and 
bonds), allowing for classic diversification benefits and 
§the second is some of these alternative asset groupings (VC, PE and hedge funds, 
in particular) have thepotential to earn excess returns or alphas. 
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
§This general framework allows for variants, accommodating 
different view on markets (from those who believe that markets 
are efficient to stock pickers and market timers) as well as 
investors with very different time horizons and risk levels, but 
those variants revolve around
§Themixofstocks,bondsandcashtohold
§How to pick the individual stocks and bonds to invest in..
§However, there are clearly large segments of investing that are 
left out of this mix from private businesses(since they are not 
listed and traded) to short selling (where you can have 
negative portfolio weights not just on individual investments 
but on entire markets) to asset classes that are not traded. 
§In fact, the best way to structure the alternative investing 
universe if by looking at alternative through the lens of these 
missing pieces.
§Many institutional investors, including most mutual, pension and 
endowment funds, are restricted from taking short position on 
investments, with exceptions sometimes carved out for hedging. 
For close to a century, at least in the United States,hedge 
fundshave been given the freedom to short traded assets.
§Whilethey do not always use the power to short to benefit, it is 
undeniable that having that power allows an investor to create 
return distributions (in terms of expected returns, volatility 
and other distributional parameters) that ae different from 
those faced by long-only investors. Within the hedge fund 
universe, there are diverse strategies that not only augment long-
only strategies (value, growth) but also invest across multiple 
markets (stocks, bonds and convertibles) and geographies.
§The opening up ofderivatives marketshasallowed some 
investors to create investment positions and orstructured 
productsthat use options, futures, swaps and forwards to create 
cash flow and return profiles that diverge from stock and bond 
market returns.
Aswath Damodaran 5
§While much of our attention is spent on publicly traded stocks and 
bonds, there is a large segment of the economy that is composed 
of private businesses that are not listed or traded. Many of these 
businesses are owned and funded by their owners, but a 
significant proportion do need outside equity capital, and 
historically, there have been two providers:
§For young private businesses, and especially those that aspire to 
become bigger and eventually go public, it is venture capital that fills 
the void, covering a spectrum from ideal companies (with angel 
financing) to growth capital (for young businesses). 
§For more established private businesses, some of which need capital to 
grow and some of which have owners who want to cash out, the capital 
has come from private equity investors. 
§On the debt front, the public debt and bank debt market is 
supplemented by private credit, where investors pool funds to 
lend to private businesses that need them, with negotiated rates 
and terms
§Real estate: For much of the twentieth century, real estate remained 
outside the purview of public markets, with a segmented investor 
base and illiquid investments, requiring localized knowledge. That 
started to change with the creation of real estate investment trusts, 
in the 1970s, and in the 1980s with the advent of mortgage-backed 
securitiesin various forms. That said, real estate punches well 
below its weight, in market value terms, in public markets.
§Collectibles: The collectible asset class spans a wide array of 
investment, most of which generate little or no cash flows, but 
derive their pricing from scarcity and enduring demand. The first 
and perhaps the longest standing collectible is gold, a draw for 
investors during crises or when they lose faith in fiat currencies 
and governments. The second is art, ranging from paintings from 
the Middle Ages to digital art (non-fungible tokens or NFTs), that 
presumably offers owners not just financial returns but emotional 
dividends. At the risk of raising the ire of crypto-enthusiasts, I 
would argue that much of the crypto space (and especially 
bitcoin) also fall into this grouping, with a combination of scarcity 
and trading demand determining pricing.
¨7
§The strongest pitch for adding alternative investments to a 
portfolio dominated by publicly traded stocks and bonds 
comes from a basic building block for portfolio theory, which is 
that adding investments that have low correlation to the 
existing holdingsin a portfolio can create better risk/return 
tradeoffs for investors.
§That pitch has been supplemented in the last two decades with 
arguments that alternative investments also offer a greater 
chance of finding market mistakes and inefficiencies, partly 
because they can be easier to find in these markets and 
partly because of superior management skills on the part of 
alternative investment managers, particularly hedge funds 
and private equity.
Aswath Damodaran 8
Aswath Damodaran 9
§The correlation-based argument for adding alternative 
investments to a portfolio is neither new nor controversial, 
since it is built on core portfolio theory arguments for 
diversification. 
§For some advocates of alternative investments, though, that 
captures only a portion of the advantage of adding alternative 
investments. 
§They argue that the investment classes from alternative investments 
draw on, which include non-traded real estate, collectibles and 
private businesses (young and old), are also the classes where 
market mistakes are more likely to persist, and 
§that alternative asset managers have the localized knowledge and 
intellectual capacity to find and take advantage of these 
mistakes. The payoff from doing so takes the form of "excess 
returns" which will supplement the benefits that flow from just 
diversification.
§While alternative investing advocates will take issue with the 
Ennis findings, on empirical and statistical bases, even long-
term beneficiaries from alternative investing seem to have 
become more skeptical about its benefits over time. 
§Ina 2018 paper, Fragkiskos, Ryan and Markov noted that 
among Ivy League endowments, properly adjusting for risk 
causes any benefitsin terms of Sharpe ratios, from adding 
alternative investments to the mix, to disappear. 
§In perhaps the most telling sign that the bloom is off the 
alternative investing rose, Y ale's endowmentannounced its 
intent to sell of billions of dollars of private equity holdings in 
June 2025,after years of under performance on its holdings in 
that investment class.
§Pricing lags; Unlike publicly traded equities and bonds, where 
there is an observable market price from current transactions, 
most private assets are not liquidand the pricing is based upon 
appraisals. In theory, these appraisers are supposed to mark-
to-market, but in practice, the pricing that they attach to private 
assets lag market changes. 
§Market crises: While correlations between investment classes 
are often based upon long periods, and across up and down 
markets, the truth is that investors care most about risk (and 
correlations) during crises, and many investment classes that 
exhibit low correlation during sideways or stable markets can 
have lose that feature and move in lock step with public 
markets during crisis.
§Even the strongest advocates for alternative investments accept 
that they are less liquid than public market investments but 
argue that for investors with long time horizons and clearly defined 
cash flow needs thatilliquidity should not be a deal breaker. 
§The problem with this argument is that much as investors like to believe 
that they control their time horizons and cash needs, they do not and 
find their need for liquidity rising during acute market crises or 
panics. 
§The other problem with illiquidity is that it manifests in transactions 
costs, manifesting both in terms of bid-ask spreads and in price impact 
that drains from returns.
§The other aspect of the private investment market that is 
mentioned but then glossed over is that they tend to be opaque in 
terms of governance structure and reporting.Again, that 
absence of transparency may be ignored in good times but could 
make bad times worse.
§When alternative investing first became accessible to institutional 
investors, the presumption was that market-beating 
opportunities abounded in private markets, and that hedge 
fund, private equity and venture capital managers brought 
superior abilities to the investment game. 
§That may have been true then, but that perception has faded for 
many reasons. 
§First, as the number of funds and money under management in these 
investment vehicles has increased, the capacity to make easy money 
has also faded, and in my view, the average venture capital, private 
equity or hedge fund manager is now no better or worse than the 
average mutual fund manager. 
§Second, the investment game has also become more difficult to win, 
as the investment world has become flatter, with many of the advantages 
that fund managers used to extract excess returns dissipating over time. 
§Third, the entry of passive investment vehicles like exchange traded 
funds (ETFS) that can spot and replicate active investors who are 
beating the market has meant that excess returns, even if present, do 
not last for long.
§Most alternative investments have a management fee, set as a 
percent of assets under management, and a performance fee, 
where they get an additionalfee,foroutperforminga
benchmark.
§Theclassic2 & 20 fee entitles thehedgefundor PE investor to 
collect 2% of funds under management every year, and 20% of 
returns overthebenchmark. Both have been trending down:
§Be picky about alternatives: Given that the alpha pitch has lost its heft, it is 
correlations that should guide investor choices on alternative investments. That 
will reduce the attractiveness of private equity and hedge funds, as investment 
vehicles, and increase the draw of some hedge funds, gold and many 
collectibles. 
§Avoid high-cost and exotic vehicles: Investing is a tough enough game to win, 
without costs, and adding high-cost vehicles makes it even more difficult. On a 
related noted, alternative investments that are based upon strategies that are so 
complex that neither the seller nor buyer has an intuitive sense of what exactly 
they are trying to do should be avoided.
§Be realistic about time horizon and liquidity needs: On this front, individual 
investors need to be honest with themselves about how susceptible they are to 
panic attacks and peer-group pressure, and institutional investors have to
recognize that their time horizon is determined by their clients, and not by their 
own preferences.
§Be wary of correlation matrices and historical alphas: If there is one 
takeaway from this post, I hope that it is that historical correlations, especially 
when you have non-traded investments at play, are untrustworthy and that 
alphas fade over time, and more so when the vehicles that delivered them are 
sold relentlessly.
