Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session4.pdf

SESSION 4: CASH FLOW 
STATEMENTS –CASH IN AND 
CASH OUT
Accounting for Finance
2
The End Game with Cash Flows
qThe surface level objective of a statement of cash flows is to 
explain how much the cash balance of a business changed during a 
period and why it changed.
qEmbedded in the statement of cash flows, though, is other 
information including:
qHow much cash earnings the company had during the period, as 
contrasted with accrual earnings (in income statements)
qHow much and where the company reinvested cash during the period to 
sustain and grow its business
qHow much cash it raised from or returned to its debt and equity investors
qThe statement of cash flows preserves the signs on cash flows, with 
negative cash flows shown as minuses and positive cash flows as 
pluses. It also looks at cash flows through the eyes of equity 
investors in the company.
3
Revisiting the Cash Flow Statement
4
1. Cash flows from Operations
Change in non-cash working capital
5
The Working Capital Effect?
¨Embedded in the cash flow from operations is the 
change in working capital items, excluding cash
¤Non-cash Working capital = Non-cash current assets –Non-debt 
current liabilities
¤An increase in non-cash working capital will decrease cash flows, 
whereas a decrease in non-cash working capital will increase 
cash flows.
¨To the extent that non-cash working capital ties up cash 
and capital, a firm with higher needs for that working 
capital will have lower cash flows from operations, for 
any given level of net income, than a firm with lower 
needs.
6
2. Cash Flows from Investing
7
Operating or Non-operating Assets
qThe investing activities section includes investments in both 
operating and non-operating assets, except for investment in 
liquid, close to riskless securities, which is treated as cash & 
marketable securities.
qThe investments into operating assets, whether internal (cap 
ex, net of divestitures) or external (acquisitions of other 
companies) are the engine that drives growth in the 
operating line items (revenues, operating income etc.) Note 
that acquisitions funded with stock will not show up here for 
obvious reasons.
qThe investments into non-operating assets create a separate 
source of value, where the payoff will not show up in the 
operating line items but below the operating income line, as 
income from cross holdings or securities.
8
3. Cash flows from Financing
9
Debt Cash Flows
¨While interest expenses show up in the operating cash 
flow section, by reducing net income and showing up in 
deferred taxes, debt repayments are part of the 
financing section.
¨To the extent that some or all of these debt repayments 
are funded with debt issuances, the net effect on cash 
flows can be neutralized or become positive.
¨If total debt increases during a period, it will represent 
a cash inflow, and if it decreases, it will be a cash 
outflow. Companies that embark on plans to bring their 
debt down (up) over time should therefore expect 
these consequences.
10
Dividends and Buybacks
qUntil the 1980s, the only cash flow that was received by 
equity investors in publicly traded companies was dividends. 
The effect of paying dividends is simple: it reduces the cash 
balance at the company and increases the cash in the pockets 
of every shareholder who receives dividends.
qStarting in the 1980s, US companies have returned increasing 
amounts to their shareholders in the form of buybacks. 
qThe effect of buying back stock is exactly the same as paying dividends, 
to the company, with cash leaving the company.
qFor shareholders, though, the cash flow effect is disparate. Those 
shareholders who sell their shares back get cash from the company, 
and those that do not get no cash, but get a larger share of the equity 
left in the company.
qBoth dividends and buybacks reduce shareholder equity on the 
balance sheet.
11
Potential Dividends (Free CF to Equity)
