Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/postclass/session4test.pdf

Session	4:	Post	Class	tests	
1. To	get	to	operating	cash	flows,	which	of	the	following	do	we	do,	to	start	the	
process?	
a. Start	with	EBITDA	and	subtract	out	depreciation,	amortization	and	
other	non-cash	charges	
b. Start	with	EBIT	and	add	back	depreciation,	amortization	and	other	
non-cash	charges	
c. Start	with	Net	Income	and	add	back	depreciation,	amortization	and	
other	non-cash	charges	
d. Start	with	EBIT	and	subtract	out	depreciation,	amortization	and	other	
non-cash	charges	
e. Start	with	Net	Income	and	subtract	out	depreciation,	amortization	and	
other	non-cash	charges	
2. Following	up,	we	then	bring	in	changes	in	current	assets,	like	inventory,	and	
current	liabilities,	like	accounts	payable.	Which	of	the	following	best	
describes	the	effect	of	those	changes?	
a. Increases	in	inventory	decrease	cash	flows	and	increases	in	accounts	
payable	increase	cash	flows.	
b. Increases	in	inventory	increase	cash	flows	and	increases	in	accounts	
payable	decrease	cash	flows.	
c. Increases	in	inventory	decrease	cash	flows	and	increases	in	accounts	
payable	also	decrease	cash	flows.	
d. Increases	in	inventory	increase	cash	flows	and	increases	in	accounts	
payable	also	increase	cash	flows.	
e. Increases	in	inventory	and	increases	in	accounts	payable	do	not	affect	
cash	flows.	
3. Embedded	in	investing	cash	flows	are	acquisitions	made	by	the	company.	
These	acquisitions	can	be	paid	for	with	cash,	with	stock	or	with	a	mix	of	cash	
and	stock.	Which	of	the	following	will	show	up	under	investing	activities?	
a. Only	stock-based	acquisitions	
b. Only	cash-based	acquisitions.	
c. Cash-based	acquisitions	and	cash	portion	of	mixed	acquisitions	
d. Cash-based	acquisitions	and	stock	portion	of	mixed	acquisitions	
e. All	acquisitions	
4. Dividends	can	be	cash	dividends	or	stock	dividends	and	share	buybacks	can	
be	either	to	keep	as	treasury	stock	or	to	reduce	share	count.	Which	of	the	
following	will	show	up	in	the	financing	section?	
a. All	dividends,	no	share	buybacks	
b. All	dividends,	all	buybacks	
c. Cash	dividends,	no	share	buybacks	
d. Cash	dividends,	all	share	buybacks	
e. Cash	dividends,	only	share	buybacks	that	reduce	share	count	
f. Cash	dividends,	only	share	buybacks	for	treasury	stock	
5. If	you	are	looking	at	the	statement	of	cash	flows	for	a	very	young,	high-
growth	company,	which	of	the	following	would	you	expect	to	see?
a. Positive	cash	flow	from	operations,	Negative	cash	flow	from	investing	
and	Negative	cash	flow	from	financing	
b. Negative	cash	flow	from	operations,	Negative	cash	flow	from	investing	
and	Positive	cash	flow	from	financing	
c. Negative	cash	flow	from	operations,	Positive	cash	flow	from	investing	
and	Negative	cash	flow	from	financing	
d. Negative	cash	flow	from	operations,	Negative	cash	flow	from	investing	
and	Negative	cash	flow	from	financing	
e. Positive	cash	flow	from	operations,	Positive	cash	flow	from	investing	
and	Positive	cash	flow	from	financing
