Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2026.pdf

DATA UPDATE 2 FOR 2026: 
EQUITIES GET TESTED, ANDPASS 
AGAIN!
Walls of worry, but…
2
A year of living dangerously!
¨It was a disquieting year , as political and economic news 
stories shook the foundations of the post-war economic 
order, built around global trade and the US dollar . 
¨In fact, if you had been read just the news all through the 
year, and were shielded from financial markets, and been 
asked what stocks did during the year, you would have 
guessed, based on the news, that it was a bad year. 
¨You would have been wrong, though, as equity markets 
proved resilient and delivered another solid year of returns 
for investors. In this post, I will focus on US equities, starting 
with the indices, and then slicing and dicing the data to see 
the differences in the cross section.
3
US Equity Indices in 2025
4
The Return on the S&P 500 in 2025
5
A Historical Context
6
Deconstructing US Equities –A Sector 
Breakdown!
7
Best and Worst Performing Industries
8
The Small Cap and Value Effects?
9
Top Heav y? The Mag Seven Effect
10
And relative to US equities (in the 
aggregate)
11
The Forward Look: Stocks at the start of 
2026
12
The PE argument
¨Using every PE ratio measure, it is undeniable that the PE 
ratio for the S&P 500, at the start of 2026, is much higher 
than it has been at any period in history, starting in 1970. 
¨While this may sound like a slam dunk argument for US stocks 
being overpriced, it is worth remembering that this indicator 
would have suggested staying out of US equities for much of 
the last decade. 
¨The problem with the PE pricing metric is that it is noisy and 
an unreliable indicator, and before you use it to build a case 
that equity investors in the US have become irrational, you 
may want to consider reasons why US stocks have benefited 
able to fight the gravitational forces of mean reversion.
13
The Earnings Engine revs up..
14
With cash return on steroids…
15
My Tie Breaker…
16
With historical context again..
17
The Bottom Line
¨US equities had a good year in 2025, and there are signs of excess in at 
some parts of the market, especially related to AI.  That said, the 
capacity of US companies to continue to deliver earnings and return cash 
flows even in the face of a tsunami of bad news continues to sustain the 
market. 
¨I am, at my core, a non market-timer, but I have held back on putting idle 
cash back into US equities in the last year, preferring to keep that cash in 
treasury bills. 
¨It is entirely possible that the market will continue to prove the naysayers 
wrong and post another strong year, but much as it may pain equity 
investors, the healthiest development for the market may be to deliver a 
return roughly equal to its expected return (8-9%). 
¨This may also be the year when the bad news stories of last year, 
including tariffs and political whiplash, will finally start to hit the bottom 
line, reducing aggregate earnings and cash flows.
