Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/GameStop.pdf

THE GAMESTOP FRENZY: 
LESSONS AND CONSEQUENCES
The Redditors’ Revenge on Hedge Funds
2
The Rest of the (Market) Story!
¨The Big Story: The last few days have been filled with news stories of how 
small investors, brought together on online forums, have not only pushed 
up the stock prices of the stocks that they have targeted (GameStop, 
AMC, BB etc.), but in the process, driven some of the hedge funds that 
have sold short on these companies to edge of oblivion. 
¨David vs Goliath?The story resonates because it has all ofthe elements of 
a David versus Goliath battle, andgiven the low esteem that many hold
Wall Street in, it has led to sideline cheerleading.  Aswith everything in 
life, this story has also acquired political undertones, as populists on all 
sides, have found a new cause. 
¨My perspective: I don't have an axe to grind in this fight, since I don't own 
GameStop or care much about hedge funds, but I am interested in how 
this episode will affect overall markets and whether I need to change the 
ways in which I invest and trade.
3
ShortSales:AQuickIntroduction
¨The Long: When most of look at investing, we think of stocks 
that we believe (based upon research, instinct or innuendo) 
will go up in value and buying those stocks.
¤In investing parlance, if you do this, you have a "long" position. 
¨AndShortofit:But what if you think a stock is too highly 
priced and is likely to go down? If you already own the stock, 
you can sell it, but if you don't have a position in the stock 
and want to monetize your pessimistic point of view, you can 
borrow shares in the stock and sell them, with an obligation 
to return the shares at a specified point in time in the future. 
¤This is a “short” sale, and if you are right and the stock price drops, you 
can buy the shares at the now "discounted" price, return them to the 
original owner and keep the difference as your profit.
4
Short Sellers: A Much MalignedBreed!
¨Short sellers have never been popular in markets, and that 
dislike is widely spread, not just among small investors, but 
also among corporate CEOs, and many institutional investors. 
In fact, this dislike shows up not only in restrictions on short 
selling in some markets, but outright bans in others, 
especially during periods of turmoil. 
¨I don't believe that there is anything inherently immoral 
about being a pessimist on markets, and that short selling 
serves a purpose in well-functioning markets, as a counter-
balance to relentless and sometimes baseless optimism. 
¨In fact, mathematically, all that you do in a short sale, relative 
to a conventional investment, is reverse the sequence of your 
actions, selling first and buying back later .
5
A Short Squeeze
¨It is true that short sellers face a problem that their long 
counterparts generally do not, and that is they have far less control 
over their time horizons. 
¨While you may be able to sell short on a very liquid, widely traded 
stock for a longer period, on most stocks, your short sale comes 
with a clock that is ticking from the moment you initiate your short 
sale. 
¤Short sellers often try to speed the process along, going public with their reasons 
for why the stock is destined to fall, and they sometimes step over the line. 
¤While short sellers wait for the correction, they face multiple threats, some coming 
from shifts in fundamentals and some from investors with a contrary view on the 
stock, buying the stock and pushing the stock price up. 
¤There stock price increases force them to buy back shares in the market to cover 
their short position, in the process pushing prices up. In a short squeeze, this cycle
speeds up to the point that short sellers have no choice but to exit the position.
6
A Short History of Short Squeezes
¨ Its not new: In 1862, Cornelius Vanderbilt squeezed out short sellers in Harlem 
Railroad, and used his power to gain full control of the New York railroad business. 
¨ And not just the US: The short sale with the largest dollar consequences was the 
one on Volkswagen in 2008, when Porsche bought enough shares in Volkswagen 
to squeeze short sellers in the stock, and briefly made Volkswagen the highest 
market cap company in the world. 
¨ With large players as squeezers: Until this decade, though, most short squeezes 
were initiated and carried through by large investors on the other side of short 
sellers, with enough resources to force capitulation. 
¨ Until the last decade: The game has changed, and the company where this 
changed dynamic has played out most effectively has been Tesla. In the last 
decade, there have been at least three and perhaps as many as five short 
squeezes on Tesla, with the most recent one occurring at the start of 2020. With 
Tesla, in d ivid u al investors w h o love the company have been at the front lines in 
squeezing short sellers, but they have had help from institutional investors, either 
true believers in the company, or too greedy not to jump on the bandwagon.
7
The GameStop Story
8
The COVID Effect..
9
The Congregation of Short Sellers..
10
And the last two weeks…
11
A Value Play?
12
Price Justification!
13
And Back Story to the Redditor Pushback..
¨A loss of faith in experts (economic, scientific, financial, government): 
During the 20th century, advances in education and increasing 
specialization created expert classes in almost every aspect of human 
activity, who we trusted to take the right actions, and when they were 
wrong, we were kept in thedark. That pact has been shattered by a 
combination of arrogance on the part of experts and catastrophic policy 
failures, with the 2008 banking crisis acting as a wake-up call. 
¨Anunquestioning worship of crowd wisdom, combinedwith an 
empowering of crowds: We have also seen the rise of big data and the 
elevation of "crowd" judgments over expert opinions, and it shows up in 
our life choices. Social media has made it easier to get crowd input 
(online), and precipitate crowd actions.
¨A conversion of disagreements in every arena into the personal and the 
political: While we can continue to debate the reasons, it remains 
inarguable that public discourse has coarsened, with the almost every 
debate, no matter in what realm, becoming personal and political.
14
What’s the end game?
¨ It is a good value: It is possible that you believe that the company is a good value, 
and that you can hold on to it as an investment. That may be a viable path, if you 
bought GameStop at $40 or $50, but I don’t see how this works if  you paid $200 
or $300 a share
¨ It is a good trade: It is more likely that you believe that you can sell the stock to 
someone else at a higher price, but to whom? You may get lucky and be able to 
exit before everyone else tries to, but the risk that you will be caught in a 
stampede is high, as everyone tries to rush the exit doors at the same time.
¨ It is to do damage to hedge funds: I don’t think much of hedge funds either, and 
view most of them as fee-earning machines, run by managers who bring nothing 
to the investment table. That said, driving a hedge fund or two out of business will 
not do serious damage to that business, since others will quickly fill the void.
¨ Itistohelp the targeted companies: How has any of what’s happened in the last 
two weeks help these companies? Their stock prices may have soared, but their 
financial positions are just as precarious as they were two weeks ago. In a 
perverse way, you might have made it more difficult for GameStop and AMC to 
find a pathway to survive as parts of larger companies, by pushing up stock prices, 
and making them more expensive as targets
15
Market Lessons
¨Flattening of the Investment World: I believe that the investment world 
has flattened over the last few decades, as access to data and powerful 
tools widens, and trading eases. Portfolio managers and market gurus are 
no longer are the arbiters of whether markets are cheap or expensive, 
and their path of least resistance might come from following what 
individual investors do.
¨Emptiness of Investment Expertise: Professional money management has 
always sold its wares (mutual funds, hedge funds, investment advice) as 
the products of deep thinking and serious analysis, and as long asthe 
processes stayed opaque and information was scanty, they were able to 
preserve the delusion. In the last few decades, as we have stripped away 
the layers, we have discovered how little there is under the surface. 
¨Value and Price: Almost everything that is being talked about (the rising 
power of the individual investor, the ease of trading, social media 
investing forums) are about price, not value. It does mean that increasing 
access to data and easing trading may have the perverse effect of causing 
price to vary more, relative to value, and for longer periods.
16
A Danger to the Market?
