Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRisk2022.pdf

COUNTRY RISK: A 2022 MID-YEAR 
UPDATE!
The times they are a’changin'
Aswath Damodaran
2
A Mid-year Ritual
¨It has been my practice for the last two decades to take a detailed 
look at how risk varies across countries, once at the start of the 
year and once mid-year. 
¨In most years, the differences between the two updates are small, 
and often ignorable, but this year's update brings significant 
changes for many reasons. 
¤The first is the retreat of risk capital, which I talked about in my last post, 
not only affects the flow of capital and repricing of the riskiest assets (high 
yield bonds, money losing companies) within each asset class, but also has 
consequences for the flow of capital across geographies, with riskier 
countries feeling the effect more than safer countries. 
¤The second is that this has been a consequential year for country risk 
shifts, with Russia's invasion of Ukraine upending risk not only for those 
countries, but also in the region, and tumult in Sri Lanka and Pakistan 
playing out as risk to investors in both countries.
Aswath Damodaran
3
Country Risk: Drivers
Aswath Damodaran
4
1. Political Freedom/Democracy
Aswath Damodaran
5
Risk and Democracy: The Trade Off
Aswath Damodaran
¨As the Economist noted, a third of the world's 
population lived under authoritarian regimes and only 
6.4% lived under full democracy, in 2021, with large 
differences across regions.
¨From a business risk standpoint, though, the question 
ofwhether you would rather operate in a democracy or 
a dictatorship is a complicated one, with the former 
creating more continuous risk, as laws and regulations 
change, as elections often bring in new governments, 
and the latter more discontinuous risk, since regime 
changes, though less frequent, are often more 
wrenching and painful.
6
2. Violence and Risk
Aswath Damodaran
7
3. Corruption and Risk
Aswath Damodaran
8
4. Legal Protection and Risk
Aswath Damodaran
9
Country Risk Scores
Aswath Damodaran
10
Country Risk: Default Risk Measures
Aswath Damodaran
11
1. Sovereign Ratings
Aswath Damodaran
12
2. Sovereign CDS Spreads
Aswath Damodaran
13
Country Risk to Equity Investors: 
Measurement Approach
Aswath Damodaran
Blue: Moody’ s Rating
Red: Added Country Risk
Green #: Total ERP
ERP : July 2022
Aswath Damodaran
15
Biggest ERP Changes…
Aswath Damodaran
16
Currency Risk: Risk free Rates
Aswath Damodaran
17
Currency Consistency in Valuation
¨ The biggest reason for differences in risk free rates across currencies is differences 
in expected inflation, with higher inflation currencies exhibiting higher riskfree 
rates. That said, the key to dealing with currency appropriately in valuation is to 
stay consistent, with cash flows and the discount rates incorporating the same 
expectations of inflation:
¨ In short, changing the currency that you use to value a company should not 
fundamentally change your assessment of that company’s value, and the reason 
that it often does in practice is because analysts are often sloppy in their 
treatment of currency, mixing growth rates in one currency with discount rates in 
another, and real with nominal numbers.
AswathDamodaran
18
A General Principle: Keep focus
Aswath Damodaran
19
Cost of Capital: A July 2022 Update
Aswath Damodaran
20
In conclusion..
¨In January 2022, I had posted a similar histogram of costs of 
capital for global and US companies, reflecting risk free rates 
and risk premiums then, and the change, over the six months, 
has been extraordinary, with the median cost of capital for a 
US firm increasing from 5.77% to 8.97%, and for a global firm, 
from 6.37% to 9.70%. 
¨As I look across the many posts I have had this year on how 
inflation is changing market pricing and psychology, I find 
myself drawing on one of my favorite Bob Dylan lyrics, "the 
times, they are a'changin’” . 
¨The biggest risk that we face, as we navigate our way through 
uncharted territory, is inertia, where we continue to do the 
things that have worked for the last decade, when we need to 
adapt and change.
Aswath Damodaran
