Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/FBStory.pdf

META LESSON 3: THE IMPORTANCE 
OF NARRATIVE
Storytime?
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Lead in
¨ In my first two posts on Facebook, I noted that its most recent earnings report, and the 
market reaction to it, offers an opportunity for us to talk about bigger issues. 
¤ I started by examining corporate governance, or its absence, and argued that some of the 
frustration that investors in Facebook feel about their views being ignored can be traced to a 
choice that they made early to give up the power to change management, by acquiescing to 
dual class shares. 
¤ In the second post, I pointed to inconsistencies in how accountants classify operating, capital 
and financing expenses, and the consequences for reported accounting numbers. 
¨ I concluded the post by arguing that investors in Facebook were pricing in their 
belief that the billions of dollars the company had invested in the Metaverse 
would be wasted, and argued that Facebook faced some of the blame, for not 
telling a compelling story to back the investment. 
¨ In this post, I want to focus on that point, starting with a discussion of why stories 
matter to investors and traders and the story that propelled the company to a 
trillion-dollar market-capitalization not that long ago. I will close with a look at 
why business stories can break, change and shift, focusing in particular on the 
forces pushing Facebook to expand or perhaps even change its story, and whether 
the odds favor them in that endeavor .
3
A Good Valuation = Story + Numbers
4
The Number Crunchers’ Delusions
• Playwithnumbers:Whenavaluationisallaboutthenumbers,itiseasytostart
playingwiththenumbers,unconstrainedbyanybusinesssense,andchangethe
value.
• Falseprecision:Numbercrunchersloveprecision,andthepathwaystheyadoptto
gettomoreprecisevaluationsareoftencounter-productive,intermsofdelivering
moreaccuratevaluations.Fromestimatingthecostofcapitaltothefourth
decimalpointtoforecastingallthreeaccountingstatements(incomestatements,
balancesheetandstatementofcashflows),inexcruciatingdetail,forthenext20
years,analystslosetheforestforthetrees.
• Drownindata:Thecomplainttoday,whentheyvaluecompanies,isthatthereis
toomuchdata.Withoutguardrails,itiseasytoseewhythisdataoverloadcan
overwhelminvestorsandanalysts,andleadthem,ironically,toignoremostofit.
• Denialofbiases:Itisalmostimpossibletovalueabusinesswithoutbias,with
somebiascomingfromwhatyouknowaboutthebusinessandsomecomingfrom
whetheryouaregettingpaidtodothevaluation,andhowmuch.Inavaluation
drivenentirelywithnumbers,analystscanfoolthemselvesintobelievingthat
sincetheyworkwithnumbers,theycannotbebiased,when,infact,bias
permeateseverystepintheprocess,implicitlyorexplicitly.
5
And how stories help…
• Storiesarememorable,numberslessso:Eventhemost-skillednumbercruncher,
aidedandabettedwithchartsanddiagrams,willhaveadifficulttimecreatinga
valuationthatisevenclosetobeingasgoodacompellingbusinessstory,in
hookinginvestorsandbeingmemorable.
• Storiesallowforconsistency-tests:Whenyourvaluationnumberscomefroma
story,itbecomesalmostimpossibletochangeoneinputtoyourvaluationwithout
thinkingthroughhowthatchangeaffectsyourstory.
• Storiesallowyoutoscreenandmanagedata:Havingavaluationstorythatbinds
yournumberstogetherandyieldsavaluealsoallowsyouaframeworkfor
separatingthedatathatmatters(information)fromthedatathatdoesnot
(distractions),andfororganizingthatdata.
• Storiesleadtobusinessfollow-through:Ifyouareabusiness-owner,valuingyour
ownbusiness,understandingthestorythatyouaretellinginthatvaluationis
extraordinarilyusefulinhowyourunthebusiness.
6
Storyteller Delusions…
Aswath Damodaran
oFairytales:Withouttheconstraintofbusinessfirstprinciples
orexplicitnumbersaboutkeyinputs,youcantellstoriesof
unstoppablegrowthandincredibleprofitsforyourcompany
thatarealluring,butimpossible.
oAnecdotalevidence:Storytellerstendtogravitatetowards
anecdotaldatathatsupportstheirvaluationstories.Rather
thandrowninthedataoverflowworldwelivein,storytellers
pickandchoosethedatathatbestfitstheirstories,anduse
themtogoodeffect,oftenfoolingthemselvesaboutviability
andprofitabilityalongtheway.
oUnconstrainedbiases:Ifnumbercrunchersareindenial
abouttheirbiases,storytellersoftenrevelintheirbiases,
presentingthemasevidenceoftheconvictionthattheyhave
intheirstories.
7
And how numbers can help…
Aswath Damodaran
• Numbersgivecredibilitytostories:Storiesarehooksthatdrawotherstoa
businessidea,butitmaynotbeenoughtogetthemtoinvesttheirmoney
init.Forthattohappen,youmayhavetousenumberstoaugmentand
backupyourbusinessstorytogiveitcredibilityandcreateenough
confidencethatyouhavethebusinesssensetomakeitsucceed.
• Numbersallowforplausibilitychecks:Ifyouareontheothersideofa
valuationpitch,especiallyonebuiltalmostentirelyaroundastory,the
absenceofnumberscanmakeitdifficulttotakethestorythroughthe3P
test,whereyouevaluatewhetheritispossible,plausibleandprobable.
• Numbercreateaccountability:Forbusinessownersandmanagers,theuse
ofnumbersallowsforaccountability,whereyouractualnumbersontotal
marketsize,marketshareandprofitabilitycanbecomparedtoyour
forecasts.
8
The Facebook Story
1. Billionsofintenseusers:Itisnotjustthemind-boggling3billionpeoplewhoarein
itsecosystemthatshoulddrawyourattention,buttheamountoftimetheyspend
init.
2. Sharingpersonaldataintheirpostings:Asaplatformthatencouragesusersto
sharealmostanythingtheywant(personal,political,emotional)withtheir
"friends",itisundeniablethatFacebookhasalsoaccumulatedimmenseamounts
ofdataaboutitsusers.
3. Whichcouldbeutilizedtofocusadvertisingatthem:Invadinguserprivacy,albeit
withtheirtacithelp,liesatthecoreofFacebook'ssuccessinonlineadvertising.In
short,Facebookuseswhatithaslearntaboutthepeopleinhabitingitsplatformto
focusadvertisingtothem.
4. Inaworldwhereonlineadswereconsumingtheadvertisingbusiness:Facebook
alsobenefitedfromamacroshiftintheadvertisingbusiness,whereadvertisers
wereshiftingfromtraditionaladvertisingmodes(newspapers,television,
billboardsetc.)toonlineadvertising;onlineadvertisingincreasedfromlessthan
10%oftotaladvertisingin2005tocloseto60%oftotaladvertingin2020.
9
And its appeal…
1. Simpleandeasytounderstand:Intellingbusinessstories,Iarguethatitpaysto
keepthestorysimpleandtogiveitfocus,i.e.,layoutthepathwaysthatthestory
willleadthecompanytomakemoney.Facebookclearlyfollowedthispractice,
withastorythatwassimpleandeasyforininvestorstounderstandandtoprice
in.Justtoprovideacontrast,considerhowmuchmoredifficultitisforPalantiror
Snowflaketotellabusinessstorythatinvestorscangrasp,letalonevalue.
2. Personalexperienceswithbusiness:Addingtothefirstpoint,investorsfeelmore
comfortablevaluingbusinesses,wheretheyhavesampledtheproductsor
servicesofferedbythesebusinessesandunderstandwhatsetsthemapart(or
doesnot)fromthecompetition.Iwouldwagerthatalmosteveryinvestor,
professionalorretail,whoinvestedinFacebookhasaFacebookpage,andevenif
theydonotpostmuchonthepage,haveseenadsdirectedspecificallyatthemon
thatpage.
3. Backedupbydata:Inthelastdecade,wehaveseenothercompanieswithsimple
storiesthatwehavepersonalconnectionsto,likeUber,AirbnbandTwitter,go
public,butnoneofthemreceivedtherapturousresponsethatFacebookdid,at
leastuntilJuly2021.
Aswath Damodaran
11
Actions and Regrets?
Aswath Damodaran
¨Havingboughtsharesinthecompanyat$133/shareafterthe
CambridgeAnalyticascandalin2018,Istayedinvestedinthe
company.Obviously,attoday'spriceofjustover$100/share,it
shouldbetimeforregrets,butIhavenone.
¨Thereareclearlyaspectsofmyvaluation,whereIoverreached,
including
¤Revenuegrowthof8%ayearthatIwouldresettoalowernumber,with
therecognitionthatonlineadvertisingisseeinggrowthleveloff,faster
thanIthoughtitwould,andismorecyclicalthanIassumeditwouldbe.
¤Asforprofitability,myestimatedtargetoperatingmarginof40%looks
hopelesslyoptimistic,giventhattheoperatingmarginsinthelasttwelve
monthsiscloserto20%,butasInotedinmylastpost,thatdropislessa
reflectionofacollapseintheonlineadvertisingbusinessmodelandmore
theresultofFacebook'sbigbetofMetaverse,andtheexpenses
emanatingfromthatbet.
12
Narrative Changes and Resets
Aswath Damodaran
13
Facebook: Forces driving a story reset….
Aswath Damodaran
¨ Facebook's originalbusiness story was built on two premises, with the first being 
that it could use thedata that it obtained on its customersto deliver more 
focusedadvertisements and the second that theonline advertising business was 
growing, largely at the expense oftraditional advertising. Both are being 
challenged by developments on the ground, and as they weaken, so is the pull of 
the Facebook story.
q On the privacy front, the Cambridge Analytica episode, though small in its direct impact, cash 
light on aunpleasant truth about the Facebook business model, where the invasion of user 
privacy is a feature, not a bug..
q The halcyon days of growth in the online advertising market are behind us, as it becomes the 
dominant part of overall advertising, and starts growing at rates that reflect growth in total 
advertising expenses at firms. 
qWhile many investors were shocked by the stagnant revenues that 
Facebook reported in its most earnings report, and some have 
attributed that to a slowing economy, the truth is that the pressures on 
Facebook's business story have been building for a while, and it is only 
the speed with which the story has unraveled that is shocking.
14
Facebook’s Choices
1. Acceptance: Accept the reality that they are now a mature player in a slow-growth 
business (online advertising), albeit one in which they are immensely profitable, 
and scale back growth plans and spending. While this may strike some as giving 
up, it does provide a pathway for Facebook to become a cash cow, investing just 
enough in R&D to keep its existing business going for the foreseeable future, 
growing at the inflation rate or lower .
2. Denial: View the slowdown in growth in the online adverting market as 
temporary, and stay with its existing business model, built around aggressively 
seeking to gain market share from both traditional players in the advertising 
market and smaller online competitors. With this path, the company may be able 
to post higher revenue growth than if it follows the acceptance path, but perhaps 
with lower operating margins and more spending on R&D.
3. Rebirth: The choice with the most upside as well as the greatest downside is for 
Facebook to try to reinvent itself in a new business. That may require substantial 
reinvestment to enter the business, and hopefully draw on Facebook’s biggest 
strength, i.e., its intense and mammoth user base.
Aswath Damodaran
15
The Metaverse Path…
Aswath Damodaran
16
A big bet, but not unprecedented…
¨Facebook’s plans to invest tens of billions in the Metaverse makes it an 
expensive venture, by any standards, and there are some who suggest 
that it is unprecedented, especially in technology, which many view as 
a capital-light business. That perception, though, collides with reality, 
especially when you look at how much big tech companies have been 
willing to invest to enter new businesses, albeit with mixed results.
• Microsoft invested $15 billion for its (very successful) entry in 2015 into Azure, its cloud 
business, and it has invested tens of billions in data centers since, expanding its reach.
• Google, renamed itself Alphabet in 2015, in a well publicized effort to rebrand itself as 
more than just a search engine, and has invested tens of billions of dollars in its other 
businesses since, but with a payoff primarily in its cloud business, which generated $19.2 
billion in revenues in 2021. Just to provide a measure of how its other bets are still 
lagging, Google generated only $753 million in revenues from its other businesses in 
2021, almost unchanged from its revenues in 2019 and 2020.
• Amazon has also invested tens of billions in its other businesses, with its biggest payoff 
coming in the cloud business (notice a pattern here). It has much less to show for its 
investments in Alexa and entertainment, and it is estimated to have lost $5 billion on its 
Alexa division in 2021 and spent $13 billion on new content for Amazon video.
Aswath Damodaran
17
TheMissingPiece?
¨ Facebook's investment plans for the Metaverserepresent a big bet, but it is not an 
unprecedented one, which raises the question of why investors have been less 
willing to cut it slack than they have for its large tech competitors. 
¤ One reason is timing, since markets are much more receptive to big growth investments, when 
times are good, as they were for much of the last decade, than in bad times, as much of 2022 
has been. 
¤ The other is the story line that backs the investment. Fairly or otherwise, the big cloud 
investments that Microsoft,Google and Amazon madecame with a story line of growth and 
profitability that investors bought into, and for the most part, theresults have justified that 
view. 
¤ The more opaqueinvestments, including Google's bets and Amazon's Alexa and prime video 
spending have been viewed more skeptically. The problem that most investors have with 
Facebook's Metaverse investment is that it is not just that the payoff is uncertain, but it is 
unclear what business the payoff will come from. 
¨ After all, the Metaverse is a space (virtual), not a business, and tomake money in 
that space,you need a business model, which can be builtaround advertising, 
subscriptions, transactions orhardware. In my view, Facebook has been lacking 
inproviding a sense of direction on this front. 
Aswath Damodaran
18
A Doomsday Scenario for Facebook
1.I used the company's actual operating income from its online 
advertising business from the last twelve months, weighed down 
as they are from a slowing economy and a stronger economy, and 
assumed no growth and a remaining life of 20 years for the 
business, with a zero liquidationvalue at the end of year 20.
2.I assumed that the company will continue to spend R&D at the 
same scorching rate that it set in the last twelve months, where it 
spent just over $32 billion on R&D, for the next 20 years.
3.I also assumed that not only will Facebook to lose $10 billion a year 
on the Metaverse, but that this willcontinue for the next 20 years, 
with no payoff in terms ofincreased revenues or earnings from its 
Metaverse investment.
4.I assume that Facebook falls is a risky company, falling at the 75th 
percentile of all US companies in terms of risk, and give it a cost of 
capital of 9%.
Aswath Damodaran
19
The resulting valuation
Aswath Damodaran
20
Following up..
¨ThemarketcapitalizationofFacebookonOctober29,2022was
$247billion,belowtheDoomsdayscenariovalue,indicatingthat
investorswere,infact,notgivingcredittoanypossibleupsidefrom
morethana$100billioninvestedintheMetaverse.
¨Themarketcapitalizationhasrisento$311billionasofNovember
15,2022,andwhilethatsuggestsamorepositiveperspective,that
valuestillreflectsapresumptionthattheMetaverseinvestment
willdestroyabout$18.9billionofFacebook'svalue.
¨Intruth,usingamorerealisticgrowthrate(ratherthanzero)or
loweringthecostofcapital(from9%to8%,themediancostof
capitalforaUScompany)orextendingthelifeofthecompany
(from20yearstoalongerperiod)canonlyaddvaluetoFacebook,
andyoucanexperimentwithyourowninputsintheattached
spreadsheet.
Aswath Damodaran
21
Turning the Trust Corner: Start with a 
business story for Metaverse
Aswath Damodaran
22
And follow up with…
1. Build in specifics into your investment story:Facebook has been clear 
about its plans to invest billions in its new businesses, but rather than just 
emphasizing the total investment that it plans to make (roughly $100 
billion), it would provide credibility if the company explained what the 
money is being spent on, and how it connects to the business story being 
told. 
2. With markers on operating payoffs:I know that there are huge 
uncertainties overhanging these investments, but it would still make 
sense to give rough estimates of how you expect revenues and operating 
margins to evolve in the Metaverse investment, over time. That will give 
investors and managers targets to track, as the company delivers results, 
and feedback loops to make changes in the way future investments are 
made, if the results are not measuring up.
3. And escape hatches, if things don't work out:I believe that Facebook will 
be best served if they are open about the things that can go wrong with 
their Metaverse bet, and not only what they are doing to protect 
themselves, if it happens, but also exit plans, if they decide to walk away
Aswath Damodaran
