Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch9.pdf

CHAPTER 9: 
VALUATION AND 
PRICING 101
Aswath Damodaran
§Putting intrinsic valuation into practice 
requires grappling not only with how to 
define cash flows and incorporate risk 
into value, but also how to factor in the 
time value of money. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§In theory, a publicly traded company 
can continue as a going concern for 
decades or even centuries. 
§To impose closure on the exercise, and 
one practice that valuation analysts use 
is to assume that cash flows beyond a 
point in time in the future will grow at a 
constant rate forever. 
§That assumption allows us to capture 
the present value of all cash flows 
beyond with a “terminal value”.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Cash ﬂows from existing assets
The base earnings will reﬂect the 
earnings power of the existing 
assets of the ﬁrm, net of taxes and 
any reinvestment needed to sustain 
the base earnings.
Value of growth
The future cash ﬂows will reﬂect expectations of how quickly earnings will grow in the future (as a positive) and how much 
the company will have to reinvest to generate that growth (as a negative). The net effect will determine the value of growth.
Expected Cash Flow in year t = E(CF) = Expected Earnings in year t - Reinvestment needed for growth
Risk in the Cash ﬂows
The risk in the investment is captured in the discount rate as a beta in the cost of equity and the default spread in the cost 
of debt.
Steady state
The value of growth comes from 
the capacity to generate excess 
returns. The length of your growth 
period comes from the strength & 
sustainability of your competitive 
advantages.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Intrinsic value is a constant: The notion of the 
intrinsic value of a business as the present value of 
the expected cash flows from that business, over 
time, applies for companies across the life cycle. 
§With very different cash flow paths: With young 
companies, struggling with building business 
models, the cash flows will be negative in the early 
years, and turn positive only as they approach high 
growth, and grow rapidly before settle into stability. 
With mature companies, you are far more likely to 
see positive cash flows immediately, but with far less 
growth in future years. With declining companies, 
you may see shrinkage in the cash flows over time, as 
businesses get smaller.
§And a changing dependence on terminal value: 
Earlier in this chapter, we noted that the value of a 
business today will be the sum of the present value of 
its expected cash flows in the forecast period and the 
present value of the terminal value, capturing cash 
flows beyond the forecast period. Y oung companies, 
with negative cash flows in the early years and 
positive and growing cash flows later, will get a much 
large proportion of their values from the cash flows in 
the later years and the termina value than more 
mature companies. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
The Market Price
Mood and Momentum
Price is determined in large part 
by mood and momentum, 
which, in turn, are driven by 
behavioral factors (panic, fear, 
greed).
Liquidity & Trading Ease
While the value of an asset may 
not change much from period to 
period, liquidity and ease of 
trading can, and as it does, so 
will the price.
Incremental information
Since you make money on 
price changes, not price levels, 
the focus is on incremental 
information (news stories, 
rumors, gossip) and how it 
measures up, relative to 
expectations
Group Think
To the extent that pricing is 
about gauging what other 
investors will do, the price can 
be determined by the "herd".
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
