Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr19/session16slides.pdf

317
IV . Assessing Existing or Past investments…
Aswath Damodaran
317
¨While much of our discussion has been focused on 
analyzing new investments, the techniques and 
principles enunciated apply just as strongly to 
existing investments. 
¨With existing investments, we can try to address one 
of two questions:
¤Post –mortem: We can look back at existing investments 
and see if they have created value for the firm. 
¤What next? We can also use the tools of investment 
analysis to see whether we should keep, expand or 
abandon existing investments.
318
Analyzing an Existing Investment
Aswath Damodaran
318
In a post-mortem, you look at the actual cash 
flows, relative to forecasts.
You can also reassess your expected cash 
flows, based upon what you have learned, 
and decide whether you should expand, 
continue or divest (abandon) an investment
319
a. Post Mortem Analysis
Aswath Damodaran
319
¨The actual cash flows from an investment can be greater than or less than 
originally forecast for a number of reasons but all these reasons can be 
categorized into two groups:
¤Chance: The nature of risk is that actual outcomes can be different from 
expectations. Even when forecasts are based upon the best of information, they 
will invariably be wrong in hindsight because of unexpected shifts in both macro 
(inflation, interest rates, economic growth) and micro (competitors, company) 
variables.
¤Bias: If the original forecasts were biased, the actual numbers will be different from 
expectations. The evidence on capital budgeting is that managers tend to be over-
optimistic about cash flows and the bias is worse with over-confident managers.
¨While it is impossible to tell on an individual project whether chance or 
bias is to blame, there is a way to tell across projects and across time. If 
chance is the culprit, there should be symmetry in the errors –actuals 
should be about as likely to beat forecasts as they are to come under 
forecasts. If bias is the reason, the errors will tend to be in one direction.
320
b. What should we do next?
Aswath Damodaran
320
........Liquidate the project
........Terminate the project
........Divest the project
........Continue the project
€ 
NFn
(1+r)n
t=0
t=n
∑ >0>Divestiture Value€ 
NFn
(1+r)n
t=0
t=n
∑ <Divestiture Value
€ 
NFn
(1+r)n
t=0
t=n
∑ <0
€ 
NFn
(1+r)n
t=0
t=n
∑ <Salvage Value
321
Example: Disney California Adventure –
The 2008 judgment call
Aswath Damodaran
321
¨Disney opened the Disney California Adventure (DCA) Park in 2001, at a 
cost of $1.5 billion, with a mix of roller coaster rides and movie nostalgia. 
Disney expected about 60% of its visitors to Disneyland to come across to 
DCA and generate about $ 100 million in annual after-cash flows for the 
firm.
¨By 2008, DCA had not performed up to expectations. Of the 15 million 
people who came to Disneyland in 2007, only 6 million visited California 
Adventure, and the cash flow averaged out to only $ 50 million between 
2001 and 2007. 
¨In early 2008, Disney faced three choices:
¤Shut down California Adventure and try to recover whatever it can of its initial 
investment. It is estimated that the firm recover about $ 500 million of its investment.
¤Continue with the status quo, recognizing that future cash flows will be closer to the 
actual values ($ 50 million) than the original projections.
¤Invest about $ 600 million to expand and modify the park, with the intent of increasing 
the number of attractions for families with children, is expected to increase the 
percentage of Disneyland visitors who come to DCA from 40% to 60% and increase the 
annual after tax cash flow by 60% (from $ 50 million to $ 80 million) at the park.
322
DCA: Evaluating the alternatives…
Aswath Damodaran
322
¨Continuing Operation: Assuming the current after-tax cash flow of 
$ 50 million will continue in perpetuity, growing at the inflation rate 
of 2% and discounting back at the theme park cost of capital in 
2008 of 6.62% yields a value for continuing with the status quo
Value of DCA = 
¨Abandonment: Abandoning this investment currently would allow 
Disney to recover only $ 500 million of its original investment.  
Abandonment value of DCA = $ 500 million
¨Expansion: The up-front cost of $ 600 million will lead to more 
visitors in the park and an increase in the existing cash flows from $ 
50 to $ 80 million. 
Value of CF from expansion = 
€ 
Expected Cash Flow next year
(Cost of capital - g) =50(1.02)
(.0662−.02)=$1.103 billion
€ 
Increase in CF next year
(Cost of capital - g)=30(1.02)
(.0662−.02)=$662 million
323
First Principles
Aswath Damodaran
323
CORPORATE FINANCE
LECTURE NOTE PACKET 2
CAPITAL STRUCTURE, DIVIDEND 
POLICY AND VALUATION
Aswath Damodaran Spring 2016
Aswath Damodaran 1
CAPITAL STRUCTURE: THE 
CHOICES AND THE TRADE OFF
Neither a borrower nor a lender be
Someone who obviously hated this part of corporate finance
Aswath Damodaran 2
3
First principles
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
The Choices in Financing
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨There are only two ways in which a business can raise money. 
¤The first is debt. The essence of debt is that you promise to make fixed 
payments in the future (interest payments and repaying principal). If 
you fail to make those payments, you lose control of your business.
¤The other is equity. With equity, you do get whatever cash flows are 
left over after you have made debt payments.
5
Global Patterns in Financing…
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
And a much greater dependence on bank loans 
outside the US…
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Assessing the existing financing choices: Disney, 
Vale, Tata Motors, Baidu& Bookscape
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
9
The Transitional Phases..
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨The transitions that we see at firms –from fully owned 
private businesses to venture capital, from private to public 
and subsequent seasoned offerings are all motivated 
primarily by the need for capital. 
¨In each transition, though, there are costs incurred by the 
existing owners:
¤When venture capitalists enter the firm, they will demand their fair 
share and more of the ownership of  the firm to provide equity.
¤When a firm decides to go public, it has to trade off the greater access 
to capital markets against the increased disclosure requirements (that 
emanate from being publicly lists), loss of control and the transactions 
costs of going public.
¤When making seasoned offerings, firms have to consider issuance 
costs while managing their relations with equity research analysts and 
rat
10
Measuring a firms financing mix …
Aswath Damodaran
10
¨The simplest measure of how much debt and equity a firm is 
using currently is to look at the proportion of debt in the total 
financing. This ratio is called the debt to capital ratio:
Debt to Capital Ratio = Debt / (Debt + Equity)
¨Debt includes all interest bearing liabilities, short term as well 
as long term. It should also include other commitments that 
meet the criteria for debt: contractually pre-set payments 
that have to be made, no matter what the firm’s financial 
standing.
¨Equity can be defined either in accounting terms (as book 
value of equity) or in market value terms (based upon the 
current price). The resulting debt ratios can be very different.
11
The Financing Mix Question
Aswath Damodaran
11
¨In deciding to raise financing for a business, is there 
an optimal mix of debt and equity?
¤If yes, what is the trade off that lets us determine this 
optimal mix?
nWhat are the benefits of using debt instead of equity?
nWhat are the costs of using debt instead of equity?
¤If not, why not?
12
The Illusory Benefits of Debt
¨At first sight, the benefit of debt seems obvious. The cost 
of debt is lower than the cost of equity. 
¨That benefit is an illusion, though, because debt is 
cheaper than equity for a simple reason. The lender gets 
both first claim on the cash flows and a contractually 
pre-set cash flow. The equity investor is last in line and 
has to demand a higher rate of return than the lender 
does.
¨By borrowing money at a lower rate, you are not making 
a business more valuable, but just moving the risk 
around.
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
Costs and Benefits of Debt
Aswath Damodaran
13
¨Benefits of Debt
¤Tax Benefits: The tax code is tilted in favor of debt, with interest 
payments being tax deductible in most parts of the world, while 
cash flows to equity are not.
¤Adds discipline to management: When managers are sloppy in 
their project choices, borrowing money may make them less so.
¨Costs of Debt
¤Bankruptcy Costs: Borrowing money will increase your expected 
probability and cost of bankruptcy.
¤Agency Costs: What’s good for stockholders is not always what’s 
good for lenders and that creates friction and costs.
¤Loss of Future Flexibility: Using up debt capacity today will mean 
that you will not be able to draw on it in the future.
14
Tax Benefits of Debt
Aswath Damodaran
14
¨When you borrow money, you are allowed to deduct interest 
expenses from your income to arrive at taxable income. This 
reduces your taxes. When you use equity, you are not 
allowed to deduct payments to equity (such as dividends) to 
arrive at taxable income.
¨The dollar tax benefit from the interest payment in any year is 
a function of your tax rate and the interest payment:
¤Tax benefit each year = Tax Rate * Interest Payment
The caveat is that you need to have the income to cover interest 
payments to get this tax benefit.
¨Proposition 1: Other things being equal, the higher the 
marginal tax rate of  a business, the more debt it will have in 
its capital structure.
15
The Effects of Taxes
Aswath Damodaran
15
¨You are comparing the debt ratios of real estate 
corporations, which pay the corporate tax rate, and 
real estate investment trusts, which are not taxed, 
but are required to pay 95% of their earnings as 
dividends to their stockholders. Which of these two 
groups would you expect to have the higher debt 
ratios?
a.The real estate corporations
b.The real estate investment trusts
c.Cannot tell, without more information
16
Debt adds discipline to management
Aswath Damodaran
16
¨If you are managers of a firm with no debt, and you 
generate high income and cash flows each year, you 
tend to become complacent. The complacency can 
lead to inefficiency and investing in poor projects. 
There is little or no cost borne by the managers 
¨Forcing such a firm to borrow money can be an 
antidote to the complacency. The managers now 
have to ensure that the investments they make will 
earn at least enough return to cover the interest 
expenses. The cost of not doing so is bankruptcy and 
the loss of such a job.
17
Debt and Discipline
Aswath Damodaran
17
¨Assume that you buy into this argument that debt adds 
discipline to management. Which of the following types 
of companies will most benefit from debt adding this 
discipline?
a. Conservatively financed (very little debt), privately 
owned businesses
b. Conservatively financed, publicly traded companies, 
with stocks held by millions of investors, none of whom 
hold a large percent of the stock.
c. Conservatively financed, publicly traded companies, 
with an activist and primarily institutional holding.
18
Bankruptcy Cost
Aswath Damodaran
18
¨The expected bankruptcy cost is a function of two variables--
¤the probability of bankruptcy, which will depend upon how uncertain 
you are about future cash flows
¤the cost of going bankrupt
ndirect costs: Legal and other Deadweight Costs
nindirect costs: Costs arising because people perceive you to be in 
financial trouble
¨Proposition 2: Firms with more volatile earnings and cash 
flows will have higher probabilities of bankruptcy at any given 
level of debt and for any given level of earnings.
¨Proposition 3: Other things being equal, the greater the 
indirect bankruptcy cost, the less debt the firm can afford to 
use for any given level of debt.
19
Debt & Bankruptcy Cost
Aswath Damodaran
19
¨Rank the following companies on the magnitude of 
bankruptcy costs from most to least, taking into 
account both explicit and implicit costs:
a. A Grocery Store
b. An Airplane Manufacturer
c. High Technology company
20
Agency Cost
Aswath Damodaran
20
¨An agency cost arises whenever you hire someone else to do something 
for you. It arises because your interests(as the principal) may deviate from 
those of the person you hired (as the agent).
¨When you lend money to a business, you are allowing the stockholders to 
use that money in the course of running that business. Stockholders 
interests are different from your interests, because 
¤You (as lender) are interested in getting your money back
¤Stockholders are interested in maximizing their wealth
¨In some cases, the clash of interests can lead to stockholders
¤Investing in riskier projects than you would want them to
¤Paying themselves large dividends when you would rather have them keep the cash 
in the business.
¨Proposition 4: Other things being equal, the greater the agency problems 
associated with lending to a firm, the less debt the firm can afford to use.
21
Debt and Agency Costs
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨Assume that you are a bank. Which of the following 
businesses would you perceive the greatest agency 
costs?
a. A Technology firm 
b. A Large Regulated Electric Utility
c. A Real Estate Corporation
¨Why?
22
Loss of future financing flexibility
Aswath Damodaran
22
¨When a firm borrows up to its capacity, it loses the 
flexibility of financing future projects with debt. 
¨Thus, if the firm is faced with an unexpected 
investment opportunity or a business shortfall, it will 
not be able to draw on debt capacity, if it has alread 
used it up.
¨Proposition 5: Other things remaining equal, the 
more uncertain a firm is about its future financing 
requirements and projects, the less debt the firm will 
use for financing current projects.
23
What managers consider important in deciding 
on how much debt to carry...
Aswath Damodaran
23
¨A survey of Chief Financial Officers of large U.S. 
companies provided the following ranking (from most 
important to least important) for the factors that they 
considered important in the financing decisions
Factor Ranking (0-5)
1. Maintain financial flexibility 4.55
2. Ensure long-term survival 4.55
3. Maintain Predictable Source of Funds 4.05
4. Maximize Stock Price 3.99
5. Maintain financial independence 3.88
6. Maintain high debt rating 3.56
7. Maintain comparability with peer group2.47
24
Debt: Summarizing the trade off
Aswath Damodaran
24
25
The Trade off for Disney, Vale, Tata Motors 
and Baidu
Aswath Damodaran
25
Debt trade off  Discussion of relative benefits/costs 
Tax benefits Marginal tax rates of 40% in US (Disney & Bookscape), 32.5% in India (Tata 
Motors), 25% in China (Baidu) and 34% in Brazil (Vale), but there is an offsetting 
tax benefit for equity in Brazil (interest on equity capital is deductible). 
Added 
Discipline 
The benefits should be highest at Disney, where there is a clear separation of 
ownership and management and smaller at the remaining firms. 
Expected 
Bankruptcy 
Costs 
Volatility in earnings: Higher at Baidu (young firm in technology), Tata Motors 
(cyclicality) and Vale (commodity prices) and lower at Disney (diversified across 
entertainment companies).  
Indirect bankruptcy costs likely to be highest at Tata Motors, since it’s products 
(automobiles) have long lives and require service and lower at Disney and Baidu.  
Agency Costs Highest at Baidu, largely because it’s assets are intangible and it sells services and 
lowest at Vale (where investments are in mines, highly vi sible and easily 
monitored) and Tata Motors (tangible assets, family group backing). At Disney, 
the agency costs will vary across its business, higher in the movie and 
broadcasting businesses and lower at theme parks.  
Flexibility 
needs 
Baidu will value flexibility more than the other firms, because technology is a 
shifting and unpredictable business, where future investment needs are difficult to 
forecast. The flexibility needs should be lower at Disney and Tata Motors, since 
they are mature companies with well-established investment needs. At Vale, the 
need for investment funds may vary with commodity prices, since the firm grows 
by acquiring both reserves and smaller companies. At Bookscape, the difficulty of 
accessing external capital will make flexibility more necessary.
26
6 Application Test: Would you expect your 
firm to gain or lose from using a lot of debt?
Aswath Damodaran
26
¨Considering, for your firm,
¤The potential tax benefits of borrowing
¤The benefits of using debt as a disciplinary mechanism
¤The potential for expected bankruptcy costs
¤The potential for agency costs
¤The need for financial flexibility
¨Would you expect your firm to have a high debt ratio 
or a low debt ratio?
¨Does the firms current debt ratio meet your 
expectations?
27
A Hypothetical Scenario
Aswath Damodaran
27
Assume that you live in a world where
(a) There are no taxes
(b) Managers have stockholder interests at heart and do 
whats best for stockholders.
(c) No firm ever goes bankrupt
(d) Equity investors are honest with lenders; there is no 
subterfuge or attempt to find loopholes in loan agreements.
(e) Firms know their future financing needs with certainty
¨What happens to the trade off between debt and 
equity? How much should a firm borrow?
