Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate8for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 8: 
DIVIDENDS AND BUYBACKS –
FACT AND FICTION
Aswath Damodaran
2
Buybacks: The Debate
¨ In an op ed on buybacks, outlining legislation that they 
plan to introduce, Senators Schumer and Sanders argue 
that the hundreds of billions of dollars that US 
companies have expended buying back their own shares 
could have been put to better use, if it had been 
reinvested back in their businesses or used to increase 
wages for their employees. 
¨ Like the senators, I am concerned about the declining 
manufacturing base and income inequality in the US, but 
I believe that their proposal has the potential for making 
things worse, not better.
3
Buybacks: Why the divide?
¨ The very mention of buybacks often creates heated 
debate, because people seem to have very different 
views on its causes and consequences. 
¨ All too often, at the end of debate, each side walks 
away with its views of buybacks intact, completely 
unpersuaded by the arguments of the other . 
¨ The reason, I believe is that our views on buybacks 
are a function of how we think companies act, what 
the motives of managers are and what it is that 
investors price into stocks.
4
1. Buybacks as Benign
5
2. Buybacks as “short term”
6
3. Buybacks as malignant
7
Preconceptions and Priors
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ Proponents not only come in very different perspectives 
of corporate behavior, but they use anecdotal evidence, 
where they point to a specific company that behaves in a 
way that backs their perspective, and say "I told you so". 
¨ The truth is that the real world is a messy place, with
¤ some companies buying back stocks for the right reasons (i.e., 
because they have no good investments and their stockholders 
prefer cash returns in this form)
¤ some companies buying back stock for short term price gains (to 
take advantage of markets which are myopic) 
¤ some companies focusing on buying back stock at the expense 
of their employees, lenders and own long term interests.
8
1. Buybacks are big & getting bigger
9
2. Companies are returning more & 
reinvesting less.. 
¨
10
3. But that may not be true, if you count 
issuances & correct accountants
11
4a. Companies with intangible assets buy 
back more than manufacturing companies
12
4b. Big companies buy back more than 
small companies..
13
4c. Low growth companies buy back more 
than high growth companies
14
Bottom line
¨ The buyback boom in the United States is being driven 
by large non-manufacturing firms, with low growth 
prospects. 
¨ If you restrict buybacks, expecting that this to unleash a 
new era of manufacturing growth and factory jobs, I am 
afraid that you will be disappointed. 
¨ The workers at the firms that buy back the most stock, 
tend to be already among the better paid in the 
economy, and tying buybacks to higher wages for these 
workers will not help those who are at the bottom of the 
pay scale.
15
5. Investing back is not always better than
returning cash…
16
6. Debt-funded Buybacks are more the
exception than the rule..
17
7. The buyback disease is spreading!
18
The Buyback Argument
¨ My view: Buybacks are more a symptom of global economic 
changes, than a cause. In particular, globalization has made itmore 
difficult for companies to generate sustained returns on 
investments, and has made earnings more volatile for all 
businesses. In conjunction, a shift from an Industrial Age economy 
to the economies of today has meant that our biggest businesses 
are less capital intensive and more dependent on investments in 
intangible assets, a trend that accounting has not been able to keep 
up with. 
¨ Yours may be different: If you came into this article with a strong 
bias against buybacks it is unlikely that I will be able to convince 
you that buybacks are benign, and it is very likely that you will be in 
favor, like Senators Schumer and Sanders, on restricting not just 
buybacks, but cash returns (including dividends), in general.
19
Assume that you can restrict or even ban 
buybacks: Play it through!
¨ On the investment front, it is true that companies that used to 
buy back large numbers of their own shares will now have 
more cash to invest, but generally in bad internal projects or 
acquisitions. You will have more reinvestment in the wrong 
segments of the economy, at the expense of investments in 
the segments that need them more.
¨ On the wage front, it will cause some companies to raise 
wages for existing employees, but since they will now be 
paying much higher wages than their competitors, my guess 
is that these same companies will be quicker to shift to 
automation and will have smaller workforces in the future, 
and that those at the low end of the pay scale will be most 
hurt by this substitution.
20
Anecdotal Evidence?
¨ The senators use Walmart and Harley Davidson to make their 
case, arguing that both companies should not have expended 
the money that they did on buybacks, and taken investments 
or raised wages instead.
¤ Investments: It is unlikely that Walmart would have opened more 
stores in the United States, a saturated market, but would have 
opened them instead in other countries. As for Harley Davidson, a 
company that serves a loyal, but niche market, building another 
factory may have created more jobs, but it is not at all clear that the 
demand exists for the bikes that would roll out.
¨ Employee wages: In a retail landscape, where Amazon lays 
waste to any competitor with a higher cost structure, that 
would have been suicidal, and accelerated the flow of 
customers to Amazon, allowing it to become more dominant..
21
In conclusion
¨ Macro forces at play: I believe that the shift to buybacks reflects 
fundamental shifts in competition and earnings risk, but I don't wear rose 
colored glasses, when looking at the phenomenon. 
¨ Bad actors? There are clearly some firms that are buying back stock, when 
they clearly should not be, paying out cash that could be better used on 
paying down debt, especially in the aftermath of the reduction of tax 
benefits of debt, or taking investments that can generate returns that 
exceed their hurdle rates. They are more the exception than the rule
¨ The Legislative Bludgeon: Banning all buybacks or writing in restrictions 
on buybacks for all companies strikes me as overkill, especially since the 
promised benefits of higher capital investment and wages are likely to be 
illusory or transitory. 
¨ Good intentions? If you are tempted to back these restrictions, because 
you believe they are well intentioned, it is worth remembering that 
history is full of well intentioned legislation delivering perverse results.
