Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Tesla2017.pdf

TESLA:	A	TALE	OF	DISRUPTION,	
WITH	A	DEBT	TWIST!
Interest	payments	with	hope	and	potential?
2
The	Story	Stock
3
From	Story	to	Value!
4
From	Height	to	Height:	The	market	loves	
Tesla
5
Leaping	over	the	establishment…
6
While	delivering	growth	(though	not	
profits)
7
And	Changing	the	Auto	Business
¨ The	Early	Response:	While	it	was	dismissed	by	the	other	
automobile	companies	as	a	newcomer	that	would	learn	the	
facts	of	life	in	the	sector,	as	it	aged,	the	reverse	has	occurred.	
¨ The	Status	Quo	shifts:	It	is	the	conventional	automobile	
companies	that	are,	slowly	but	surely,	coming	to	the	
recognition	that	Tesla	has	changed	their	long-standing	
business	with	its	innovations.	Volvo,	a	Swedish	automaker	not	
known	for	its	flair, announced	recently	that	all	of	its	cars	
would	be	either	electric	or	hybrid	by	2019,	and Ford's	CEO	
was	displaced	for	not	being	more	future	oriented.	
¨ In	a	hide-bound	sector:	A	little	more	than	a	decade	after	it	
burst	on	to	the	scene,	it	is	a	testimonial	to	Elon	Musk	that	he	
has	started	the	disruption	of	one	of	the	most	tradition-bound	
sectors	in	business.
8
Valuation	Update
¨ Story	Update: My	story	for	Tesla,	from	July	2016,	of	a	
company	that	will	be	able	to	meld	the	margins	and	
reinvestment	needs	of	a	tech	company	with	the	revenues	of	
an	automobile	company	remains	intact.
¨ Numbers	Update: There	were	two	tweaks	to	the	numbers:
¤ Higher	end-year	revenues:	The	revenues	in	year	10	will	be	close	to	$93	
billion,	up	from	$82	billion	in	my	July	2016	valuation.
¤ Lower	reinvestment:	The	improved	operating	margins	reduce	
reinvestment	needs	to	fund	growth.	You	still	have	seven	years	of	
negative	free	cash	flows	totaling	$15.5	billion,	requiring	capital	
infusions.
¨ Value	Update: Updated	value	per	share	of	$192.34,	up	from	
$151.85	from	July	2016.
10
Tesla’s	Challenges
¨ Can	Tesla	sell	millions	of	cars? The	revenues	that	I	project	in	
2010	will	require	Tesla	to	sell	close	to	2	million	cars,	in	the	
face	of	increased	competition.
¨ Can	it	make	millions	of	cars? There	are	two	production	tests	
that	Tesla	has	to	meet. The	first	is	timing,	since	the	deliveries	
have	been	promised	for	the	middle	of	2018	and	the	assembly	
lines	have	to	be	humming	by	then.	The	second	is	cost,	since	a	
subtext	of	the	Tesla	story,	reinforced	by	Elon	Musk,	is	that	the	
company	has	found	new	and	innovative	ways	of	scaling	up	
production	at	much	lower	costs	than	conventional	
automobile	companies.
¨ Can	it	generate	double	digit	margins? In	my	valuation,	I	
assume	an	operating	margin	of	12%	for	Tesla,almost	double	
the	average	of	6.33%	for	global	auto	companies.
11
Tesla’s	Odd	Financing	Choices
12
With	a	new	debt	issue	coming	up..
¨ That	debt	load,	already	high,	given	Tesla’s	operating	cash	
flows	is	likely	to	get	even	bigger	if	Tesla	succeeds	in	
its newest	debt	issue	of	$1.5	billion,	which	it	is	hoping	to	
place	with	an	interest	rate	of	5.25%,	trying	to	woo	bond	
buyers	with	the	same	pitch	of	growth	and	hope	that	has	
been	so	attractive	to	equity	markets.	
¨ That	suggests	that	those	making	the	pitch	either	do	not	
understand	how	bonds	work	(that	bondholders	don't	get	
to	share	much	in	upside	but	share	fully	in	the	downside)	
or	are	convinced	that	there	are	enough	naive	bond	
buyers	out	there,	who	think	that	interest	payments	can	
be	made	with	potential	and	promise.
13
The	Debt	Equity	Trade	off
14
And	why	debt	does	not	make	sense	for	
Tesla
¨ No	tax	benefits:	It	is	a	company	that	is not	only	still	losing	money	but	has	
carried	forward	losses	of	close	to	$4.3	billion,	effectively	nullifying	any	tax	
benefits	from	debt	for	the	near	future.
¨ No	disciplinary	function:	With	Elon	Musk,	the	largest	stockholder	at	the	
company,	at	the	helm,	there	is no	basis	for	the	argument	that	debt	will	
make	managers	more	disciplined	in	their	investment	decisions.	
¨ Large	bankruptcy	risk:	The	company	is	still	young	and	losing	money,	
and adding	a	contractual	commitment	to	make	interest	payments	on	top	
of	all	of	the	other	capital	needs	that	the	company	has,	strikes	me	as	
imprudent,	with	the	possibility	that	one	bad	year	could	its	promise	at	risk.	
¨ Agency	problems:	In	a	company	like	Tesla,	making	large	and	risky	bets	in	
new	businesses, the	chasm	between	lenders	and	equity	investors	is	wide,	
and	lenders	will	either	impose	restrictions	on	the	company	or	price	in	
their	fears	(as	higher	interest	rates).
15
So	why	is	Tesla	borrowing?
¨ The	Dilution	Bogeyman:	The	first	is	that	the	company	or	its	
investment	bankers	are	so	terrified	of	dilution,	that	a	stock	
issue	is	not	even	on	the	table.	Once	the	dilution	bogeyman	
enters	the	decision	process,	any	increase	in	share	count	for	a	
company	is	viewed	as	bad,	and	you	will	do	everything	in	your	
power	to	prevent	that	from	happening,	even	if	it	means	
driving	the	company	into	bankruptcy.
¨ Inertia:	Auto	companies	have	generally	borrowed	money	to	
fund	assembly	plants	and	the	bankers	may	be	reading	the	
capital	raising	recipe	from	that	same	cookbook	for	Tesla.	That	
is	incongruent	with	Elon	Musk’s	own	story	of	Tesla	as	a	
company	that	is	more	technology	than	automobile	and	one	
that	plans	to	change	the	way	the	auto	business	is	run.
16
What	Tesla	should	do..
¨ Issuing	shares	to	fund	investment	needs	will	increase	the	
share	count	at	Tesla	by	about	3-4%	(which	is	what	you	
would	expect	to	see	with	a	$1.5	billion	equity	issue)	but	
that	is	a	far	better	choice	than	borrowing	the	money	and	
binding	yourself	to	make	interest	payments.	
¨ If	Tesla	is	dead	set	on	not	raising	its	share	count,	why	not	
issue	long	term,	really	low	coupon	convertible	
bonds, very	similar	to	this	one	from	2014,	a	bond	only	in	
name	since	almost	all	of	its	value	came	from	the	
conversion	option	(which	is	equity	with	delayed	
dilution)?
17
The	Conclusion
¨ The	Tesla	story	continues	to	evolve,	and	there	is	much	in	
the	story	that	I	like.	It	is	changing	the	automobile	
business,	a	feat	in	itself,	and	it	is	starting	to	deliver	on	its	
production	promises.	
¨ The	next	year	may	be	manufacturing	hell,	but	if	the	
company	can	make	its	through	that	hell	and	find	ways	to	
deliver	the	tens	of	thousands	of	Tesla	3s	that	people	
have	put	down	deposits	for,	it	will	be	well	on	its	way.	
¨ I	still	find	the	stock	to	be	too	richly	priced,	even	given	its	
promise	and	potential,	for	my	liking,	but	this	much	I	
know.	I	would	rather	own	equity	in	this	company	than	
the	bonds	that	it	is	planning	to	issue.
