Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DiscountRateMyth5.pdf

DISCOUNT	RATE	MYTH	5:	IF	THE	
RISK	FREE	RATE	CHANGES..
2
Riskfree	Rates	and	Value	in	DCF
¨ Riskfree rate	is	part	of	discount	rate:	In	a	conventional	
DCF ,	the	riskfreerate	enters	the	process	only	in	the	
estimation	of	discount	rates,	forming	the	base	from	
which	both	cost	of	equity	anc capital	are	computed.
¨ As	riskfree rate	changes,	discount	rates	change	in	
tandem:	If	you	hold	all	else	constant	(cash	flows,	growth,	
debt	ratios	and	risk	premiums),	lowering	the	riskfree rate	
will	always	increase	value,	with	the	pace	of	increase	
picking	up	the	lower	the	risk	free	rate	gets.
¨ Low	rates	=	Sky	high	valuations:	In	today’s	environment	
of	near-zero	and	even	negative	risk	free	rates,	this	has	
the	potential	to	blow	up	DCF	valuations.
3
In	this	world,	all	eyes	turn	to	central	
bankers..
4
Riskfree	Rates	and	Value:	Ceteris	Paribus
5
Riskfree	Rates	and	Value:	The	Real	World
• Central	banks	don’t	set	interest	rates,	but	tweak	
them.	
• When	interest	rates	change	significantly,	the	changes	
are	coming	from	changes	in	the	macroeconomic	
fundamentals	which	will	also	affect	your	other	
inputs	into	value.
• Put	simply,	you	cannot	hold	all	else	constant.
6
1.	Riskfree	Rates	and	Growth
7
2.	Riskfree	Rates	and	ERP
8
3.	Riskfree	Rates	and	Default	Spreads
9
4.	Riskfree	Rates	and	Debt	Ratios
10
Riskfree	Rates	and	Value:	Dynamic	Setting
11
Riskfree	Rates	and	Value:	The	Full	Picture
12
Playing	Devil’s	Advocate!
¨ Mean	Reversion:	The	essence	of	mean	reversion	is	that	when	
something	looks	unusually	low	or	high,	it	will	be	revert	back	
to	historic	norms.
¤ Assuming	things	will	revert	back	to	the	way	they	used	to	be	can	be	
dangerous,	if	there	has	been	a	structural	shift	in	the	process.	
¤ You	cannot	selectively	mean	revert	some	numbers	and	no	mean	revert	
others.	
¨ Central	Bank	as	Master	Manipulators:	If	you	believe	that	the	
Fed	sets	interest	rates	and	ty	that	markets	are	being	led	by	
the	nose,	you	do	have	the	basis	for	a	"bubble"	argument,	
where	"artificially"	low	interest	rates	are	leading	all	financial	
assets	into	bubble	territory.	The	evidence,	though,	suggests	
that	markets	are	not	being	fooled.
