Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate10for2018.pdf

DIVIDENDS, BUYBACKS & CASH: 
JANUARY 2018 DATA UPDATE 10
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Pricing Imperative
¨ In my first nine posts on my data update for 2018, I 
focused on the costs that companies face in raising 
equity and debt, and their investment, financing and 
dividend decisions. 
¨ In assessing those decisions, though, I looked at their 
actions through the lens of value creation, arguing, for 
instance, that investing in projects that earn less than 
their cost of capital is not a good use of shareholder 
capital, on the implicit assumption that financial markets 
reward value creation and punish value destruction. 
¨ Markets have minds of their own, sometimes rewarding 
companies for bad behavior and punishing companies 
that take the right actions.
3
Value versus Pricing
4
The Pricing Process
¨ Much of what we see foisted on us as valuations, 
including those that you see backing up IPOs, 
acquisitions or big investment decisions, are really 
pricing masquerading as valuation. 
¨ Bankers and analysts use the front of estimating cash 
flows for a discounted cashflow valuation, while slipping 
in a multiple to estimate the biggest cash flow, the 
terminal value, in what I call Trojan Horse DCFs. 
¨ There are four steps to pricing an asset or company well, 
and as I go through these steps, I will also suggest good 
pricing practices.
5
Step 1: Find similar firms
¨ To price an asset, you have to find "similar" assets 
that are traded in the market. 
¨ The conventional practice in pricing seems to be still 
country and sector focused, where an Indian food 
processing company is compared to other food 
processing companies in India, on the implicit 
assumption that these are the most comparable 
companies. 
¨ That practice, though, can not only lead to very small 
samples in some countries, but the companies in the 
sector can also have very different fundamentals...
6
Good Pricing Practices
1.1: With equities, there are no perfect matches: With stocks, 
there are no identical stocks, since even with companies that 
are close matches, differences will persist.
1.2: Small, more similar sample or Large, more diverse sample: 
Given that there are no stocks identical to the one that you 
are trying to value in the market, you will be faced with 
two choices. 
¤ One is to define "similar" narrowly, looking for companies that are 
listed on the same market as yours, of similar size and serving the 
same market. 
¤ The other is to define it more broadly, bringing in companies in other 
markets and perhaps with different business models. The former will 
give you more focus and the latter a much larger sample and which 
one you choose to use will depend on how you do the rest of your 
pricing.
7
2. Pricing Metrics
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Good Pricing Practices
¨ 2.1: When leverage is different across companies, go 
with enterprise value: When comparing pricing across 
companies, it is better to focus on enterprise value, 
when debt ratios vary widely across the companies, 
because equity value at highly levered companies is 
much smaller and more volatile.
¨ 2.2: With financial service companies, stick with equity: 
Debt to a bank, investment bank or insurance company 
is more raw material than source of capital and defining 
debt becomes almost impossible to do at 
financial service firms. Rather than wrestle with his 
estimation problem, my suggestion is that you stick 
with equity multiples.
9
3. Choose a scaling variable
10
Good Pricing Practices
3.1: Be internally consistent: If your pricing metric is 
an equity value, your scaling variable has to be an 
equity value (net income, book value of equity). If your 
pricing metric is enterprise value, your scaling variable 
has to be an operating variable (revenues, EBITDA or 
book value of invested capital).
3.2: Life cycle matters: The multiple that you use to 
judge pricing will change, as a company moves through 
the life cycle.
11
Pricing across the Life Cycle
12
4. Control for Differences
¨ Differences will persist: No matter how carefully you 
pick comparable firms, there will be differences that 
persist between the company that you are trying to 
value and the comparable firms. 
¨ The Pricing Test: The test of good pricing is whether 
you detect the variables that cause differences in 
pricing and how well you control for the differences. 
¨ Too much hand waving: In much of equity research, 
the preferred mode for dealing with these 
differences is to spin them to justify whatever pre-
conceptions you have about a stock.
13
Good Pricing Practices: Link to fundamentals, if 
you believe they will prevail..
14
Or trust the market…
¨ If you are a pure trader, who has little faith that the 
fundamentals will prevail, you can can take a 
different path.
¨ You can look at other data, related to the companies 
that you are pricing, and look for correlation. 
¨ Put simply, you are trying to use the data to back out 
what variables best explain differences in market 
pricing, and using those variables to price your 
company.
15
Pricing around the Globe: PE Ratios
16
Book Value Multiples
17
EBIT & EBITDA Multiples
18
Revenue Multiples
