Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ZomatoUpdate.pdf

A ZOMATO UPDATE: VALUE, 
PRICE AND THE GAP
AnIndia bet reassessed!
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
Setting the table
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨Just about a year ago, I valued Zomato just ahead of its initial public 
offering and arrived at a value of about₹41 per share. 
¨The market clearly had a very different view, as the stock 
premiered at₹74 per share and soared into the stratosphere, 
peaking at₹169 per share in late 2021. 
¤The last few months have been rocky, as the price has been marked down, 
partly in response to disappointing results from the company, and partly 
because of macro developments. 
¤At close of trading on July 26, 2022, the stock was trading at₹41.65 per 
share, and the mood and momentum that worked in its favor for most of 
2021 had turned against the company. 
¨In this post, I will begin with a quick review of my 2021 valuation, 
then move on to the price action in 2021 and 2022 and then 
update my valuation to reflect the company's current numbers.
3
My IPO Valuation
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Pushback, and response…
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
TheZomatoPricingGame
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
Vindicationornot?
¨Thoughsome have suggestedthat price dropping to my value 
is vindication of my valuation, I am not part of that group for 
three reasons. 
¤First, it seems skewed to celebrate only your successes and not your 
failures, and it behooves me to let you know that I also valued Paytm 
at close to₹2000 per share, and the stock is currently trading at₹713. 
¤Second, even if nothing in my valuation has changed, the value per 
share of₹41 per share was as of July 2021, and if it is a fair 
assessment, the expected intrinsic value per share in July 2022 should 
be roughly 11.5% higher (i.e., grow at the cost of equity), yielding 
about₹46in July 2022. 
¤Finally, the company and the market have changed in the year since I 
last valued it, and to make a fair judgment today, the company will 
have to be revalued.
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Updating fundamentals: Company good 
news.. 
¨On the good news front, the food delivery market in India has continued 
to grow over the last year, and Zomato has been able to maintain its 
market share. In fact, there are signs that the market is consolidating with 
Zomato and Swiggycontrolling 90% of the market share of restaurant 
deliveries.
Aswath Damodaran
8
And more good news: its liquidity/cash 
buffer has improved..
¨In addition, the substantial cash that Zomato raised on 
its IPO is providing it with a cash and liquidity cushion, 
with cash and short terminvestments jumping 
from₹15,000 in March 2021 to₹68746 (including short 
term investments) in March 2022. 
¨Since Zomato is a young, money-losing company, and the 
likelihood of failure acts as a drag on value, this will 
benefit the company, since it provides not only a cushion 
for the firm but also eliminates dependence on external 
capital for the next few years.
9
The Bad News
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨On the bad news front, the take rate, i.e., theslice of gross 
order value (GOV) that Zomato keeps has dropped 
substantially over the last year, reflecting increased 
competition in the market, higher delivery costs and Zomato's 
entry into newer markets (like grocery delivery) with lower 
revenue sharing. 
¨In addition, the growth has come in fits and starts, and given 
Zomato's active acquisition strategy, it is not clear how much 
of the revenue growth is organic and how much is acquired. 
¨In addition, the Indian governmentput both Swiggy and 
Zomato on noticethat they may be facing anti-trust action in 
the future, perhaps opening the door to more competition.
10
And more bad news: Losses are 
mounting…
¨While there was a management narrative of economies of scale and 
improved contribution margins, the end numbers don't back up either 
contention, withcost of goods sold rising much faster than 
revenuesandoperating and net margins both becoming more negative 
over the last year. (And no, you cannot add back stock based
compensation and come up withan adjusted EBITDA to claim 
otherwise....)
Aswath Damodaran
10
11
Still-to-be-decided news…
¨On the still-to-be-decided front, Zomato has continued ona strategy of 
acquiring small companiesto advance its growth agenda, and while many 
of these acquisitions have been small, its most recent conflict-ridden 
acquisition of Blinkithas raised questions about whether this growth is 
coming at a reasonable cost. Even if true, the big question is whether an 
acquisition-driven growth strategy can create value is scalable and value 
creating.
¨In addition, Zomato is also building a portfolio of equity positions, which 
do not show up as part of operating assets, and the founders rationalize 
this behavior by arguing that these are "thebuilding blocks for a robust 
quick-commerce business in India, andwill accelerate digitisationand 
growth of the food and restaurant industry which accelerates our core 
food business " (from the 2022 Q4 shareholder discussion). Even if we 
accept this argument for minority holdings, it will add to the complexity in 
the firm and make investors and traders more wary, especially in periods 
of uncertainty.
AswathDamodaran
11
12
The Macro Factors
Aswath Damodaran
12
¨ Inflation returns: Inflation is back in almost every part of the globe, andhas 
unsettled markets.The effects of inflation show up first ashigher risk freerates, 
across currencies, and next in higher risk premiums, with bothequity risk 
premiums and default spreads rising.In a follow-up post a couple of weeks later, I 
looked inflation's effects on individual companies and argued that less-risky 
companies with pricing power and high gross margins would be less exposed than 
riskier, money-losing companies. 
¨ Risk Capital flees: In apost at the start of this month, I looked at how the retreat 
of risk capital, i.e., capital invested in the riskiest assets was playing out in higher 
equity risk premiums in mature markets, and in a later post a few days later ,even 
bigger increases in equity risk premiums in emerging markets. As a company with 
the bulk of its business in India, Zomato again is more exposed to these 
developments.
¨ Cost of capital up: A higher equity risk premium for India (9.08% in July 2022, 
compared to 6.85% in July 2021) and a higher riskfree rate in rupees (4.78% in July 
2022, compared to 4.25% in July 2021) conspire to push up the cost of capital for 
Zomato (and other Indian companies) by about 1.5-2% from my IPO valuation.
Aswath Damodaran13
14
DealingwithUncertainty:AZomato
Simulation
15
Action Plans: For Investors and Traders!
Aswath Damodaran
15
¨If you are an investor, at its current stock price (₹41.65 on July 
26), the stock is still at the 70th percentile. That said a few 
more weeks like the last two will push the price below my 
median value, and if it does, I would buy Zomato, as part of a 
diversified portfolio (and not as a stand aloneinvestment)
¨If you are a trader, you are playing a different game entirely, 
and Zomato's value is not part of that game. You are gauging 
mood and momentum, which at the momentare extremely 
negative for the stock, andtrying to get ahead of a shift back 
to the positive. To make that judgment, you will be better 
served poring over charts, looking at price and volume 
movements, consulting with an astrologer, or even visiting 
your favored temple, church or mosque.
16
In Conclusion
¨This is not a conspiracy. I know that some of you did buy 
Zomato shares in their glory days in 2021 and are either 
continuing to hold, hoping for a come back, or have sold, 
and are licking your wounds. I am sorry for your loss, but 
please don't attribute to conspiracies (where insiders, 
founders and backers play the role of villains) what can 
be better explained by greed, and its capacity to cloud 
judgment. 
¨If you live by momentum, you die by it. Your consolation 
prize is that you have lots of company in this market 
(from Cathie Wood at Ark to the thousands of investors 
who put their money in Bitcoin, NFTs and other cryptos), 
and this too shall pass!
Aswath Damodaran
16
