Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/InflationCompanyValue.pdf

AN INFLATION FOLLOW UP: THE 
DISPARATE EFFECTS ON 
COMPANY VALUE
The Search for Inflation Hedges
2
Inflation is back.. Or not…
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨In general, higher and more volatile inflation has negative effects 
on all financial assets, from stocks to corporate bonds to treasury 
bonds and neutral to positive effects on gold, collectibles and real 
assets. 
¨That said, the impact of inflation on individual company values can 
vary widely, with a few (perhaps, very few) companies benefiting, 
some affected only lightly, and other companies being affected 
more adversely, by higher-than-expected inflation. 
¤In an environment where finding inflation hedges has become the first 
priorityfor most investors, the search is on for companies that can operate 
as inflation hedges. 
¤The conventional wisdom, based largely on investor experiences from the 
1970s, is that commodity companies and firms with pricing power are the 
best ones to hold, if you fear inflation, but is that true, and even if it is 
true, why is it so?
3
Inflation and Company Value
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
TheFactors that determine Inflation 
Sensitivity
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
Lessons from the past: 1930-2019
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
Returnsin2022:BySector
7
TheSmallCapPremium?
8
The Value Factor
9
Equity Risk
10
Bond Ratings
11
Operating Cash Flows and Dividends
12
Value Investing vindicated?
¨Companies that generate more cash flows from their 
operations and return more of that cash flow in dividends to 
stockholders have clearly held their value better than 
companies with low or negative cash flows that pay no 
dividends. 
¨Looking at these results, value investors will undoubtedly find 
vindication for their beliefs that this is a correction long over 
due, i.e., a return to normalcy where safe stocks in boring 
sectors that pay high dividends deliver excess returns. 
¨I do think that given how consistently growth stocks have 
been beating value stocks for the last decade, a correction 
was in order, but I don't believe that this is the start of return 
of old-fashioned value investing.
13
Bottom Line
¨This has been a painful year for investors in US equities, but the 
pain has not been evenly spread across investors. 
¨The question of whether these trends will continue to apply for the 
rest of the year cannot be answered without taking a stand on 
inflation, and the effects that fighting it will create for the 
economy.
¤If you believe that there is more surprises to come on the inflation front, 
and that a recession is not only imminent, but likely to be steep, the 
returns in the first five months of 2022 will be a precursor to more of the 
same, for the rest of the year .
¤If you believe that markets have mostly or fully adjusted to higher 
inflation, betting on a continuation of the small cap and value 
outperformance to continue is dangerous.
¤To the extent that there m ay be other countries w here inflation is not the 
clear and present danger that it is in the United States, investing in 
equities in those countries will offer better risk and return tradeoffs.
