Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate9for2025.pdf

Inertia and Me-tooism
§In my ninth (and last) data session for 2025, I look at cash 
returned by businesses across the world, looking at both the 
magnitude and the form of return. 
§I start with a framework for thinking about how much cash a 
business can return to its owners, and then argue that, in the 
real world, this decision is skewed by inertia and me-tooism. 
§I also look at a clear and discernible shift away from dividends 
to stock buybacks, especially in the US, and examine both good 
and bad reasons for this shift, 
§After reporting on the total cash returned during the year, by 
public companies, in the form of dividends and buybacks, I 
scale the cash returned to earnings (payout ratios) and to 
market cap (yield) and present the cross sectionaldistribution 
of both statistics across global companies.
Aswath Damodaran 2
§The decision of whether to return cash, and how much to 
return, should, at least in principle, be the simplest of the 
three corporate finance decisions, since it does not require 
the estimation uncertainties that go with investment decisions 
and the angst of trading of tax benefits and default risk 
involved in financing decisions. 
§In practice, though, there is probably more dysfunctionality 
in the cash return decision, partly driven by deeply held, but 
misguided views, of what returning cash does or does not do to 
a business and partly by the psychology that returning cash to 
shareholders is an admission that a company's growth days are 
numbered or over. 
Aswath Damodaran 3
§f companies following this sequence to determine, it is quite 
clear that the cash returned should not only vary 
§from year to year, with more (less) cash available for return in good 
(bad) years), but also across firms, as firms that struggle on 
profitability or have large reinvestment needs might find that not 
only dothey not have any cash to return, but that they might have to 
raise fresh capital from equity investors to keep going. 
§It also follows that the investment, financing, and dividend 
decisions, at most firms, are interconnected, since for any given set 
of investments, borrowing more money will free up more cash flows 
to return to shareholders.
Aswath Damodaran 5
Aswath Damodaran 6
¨8
Aswath Damodaran 9
Aswath Damodaran 10
§One of the delusions that both buyback supporters and 
opponents use, i.e., that buybacks create or destroy value. 
§Thus, buyback supporters argue that a company that is buying 
back its own shares at a price lower than its underlying value, is 
effectively taking an investment with a positive net present value, 
andis thus creating value. That is not true, since that action just 
transfers value from shareholders who sell back (at the too low a 
price) to the shareholders who hold on to their shares. 
§Similarly, buyback opponents note that many companies buy back 
their shares, when their stock prices hit new highs, and thus risk 
paying too high a price, relative to value, thus destroying value. This 
too is false, since paying too much for shares also is a wealth 
transfer, this time from those who remain shareholders in the firm to 
those who sell back their shares.
§Whiledividendsweremettobeforresidual cash flows, they 
have evolvedovertime to take on more weighty meaning, and 
companies have adopted dividend policies that are at odds 
with their capacity to return cash.
§Therearetwo forces that feed dividend dysfunction:
§Inertia:Onceacompanyinitiates a dividend policy, itisreluctant to 
back away from it, even though circumstances change.
§Me-tooism:Companiesadoptcashreturnpoliciestomatchtheir
peergroups,payingdividendsbecause other companies are also 
paying dividends, or buying back stock for the same reasons.
