Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CryptoCurrencies.pdf

CRYPTO	CURRENCIES:	FLASH	IN	
THE	PAN	OR	THE	FUTURE	OF	
CURRENCY?
Hype,	hope	and	disappointment
2
The	Rise	of	Crypto	Currencies
3
And	the	bloom	is	not	off	the	rose,	yet..
4
A	Newcomer	rises	too…
5
The	Architecture	behind	the	Crypto	
Currencies..
6
The	Block	Chain:	Characteristics
¨ Decentralized	verification:	The	validation	of	a	transaction	is	sourced	
to	members,	called	miners	in	the	crypto	currency	world.	Validation	
usually	involves	trying	different	algorithms	(hashes)	to	find	the	
unique	one	that	matches	the	transaction	block,	and	the	successful	
miner	is	rewarded,	currently	with	the	crypto	currency.	
¨ Complete	and	open	records:	Every	transaction,	once	validated,	is	
converted	into	a	block	of	data	that	is	recorded	in	the	block	chain	
ledger,	which	is	accessible	to	everyone	in	the	network.	If	you	are	
worried	about	privacy,	the	transaction	records	do	not	include	
personal	data	but	take	the	form	of	encrypted	data	(hashes).
¨ Incorruptible:	A	block	chain,	once	recorded	and	shared,	cannot	be	
changed	since	those	changes	are	visible	to	everyone	in	the	network	
and	are	quickly	tagged	as	fraudulent.	Thus,	the	ledger,	once	
created,	becomes	almost	incorruptible.
7
The	Future	of	Blockchain
¨ In	effect,	a	block	chain	is	a	digital	intermediation	process	
where	transactions	are	checked	by	members	of	the	network,	
and	recorded,	and	once	that	is	done,	cannot	be	altered	
fraudulently.	
¨ The	block	chain	technology	is	about	far	more	than	crypto	
currencies.	It	can	be	used	to	record	transactions	in	any	asset,	
from	securities	in	financial	markets	to	physical	assets	like	
houses,	and	do	so	in	a	way	that	replaces	the	existing	
intermediaries	with	decentralized	models.	
¨ Banks	and	stock	exchanges,	which	make	the	bulk	of	their	
money	from	intermediation,	not	only	see	block	chains	as	a	
threat	to	their	existence	but	have	been	early	investors	in	the	
technology,	hoping	to	co-opt	it	to	their	own	needs.
8
Currency	101:	The	Purposes	of	Money
¨ Unit	of	account:	A	key	role	for	a	currency	is	to	operate	as	a	unit	of	
account,	allowing	you	to	value	not	just	assets	and	liabilities,	but	
also	goods	and	services.	To	be	effective	as	a	unit	of	account,	a	
currency	has	to	be	fungible	(one	unit	of	the	currency	is	identical	to	
any	other	unit),	divisible	and	countable.
¨ Medium	of	exchange:	Currencies	exist	to	make	transactions	
possible,	and	this	is	best	accomplished	if	the	currency	in	question	is	
easily	accessible	and	transportable,	and	is	accepted	by	buyers	and	
sellers	as	legal	tender .	The	latter	will	occur	only	if	people	trust	that	
the	currency	will	maintain	its	value	and	if	transactions	costs	are	
low.
¨ Store	of	value:	To	the	extent	that	you	hold	some	or	all	of	your	
wealth	in	a	currency,	you	want	to	feel	secure	about	leaving	it	in	
that	currency,	knowing	that	it	will	not	lose	its	buying	power	while	
stored.
9
Good	versus	Bad	Currencies
¨ Forms:	Currencies	can	take	one	of	three	forms,	a	physical	
asset	(gold,	silver,	diamonds,	shells),	a	fiat	currency	
(usually	taking	the	form	of	paper	and	coins,	backed	by	a	
government)	and	crypto	or	digital	currencies.
¨ The	Survivor:	Gold's	long	tenure	as	a	currency	can	be	
attributed	to	its	strength	as	a	store	of	value,	arising	from	
its	natural	scarcity	and	durability,	though	it	falls	short	of	
fiat	currencies,	in	terms	of	convenience	and	acceptance,	
both	as	a	unit	of	account	and	as	medium	of	exchanges.
¨ The	Fiat	Currencies:	Fiat	currencies	are	backed	by	
sovereign	governments	and	consequently	can	vary	in	
quality	as	currencies,	depending	upon	the	trust	that	we	
have	in	the	issuing	governments.
10
How	do	crypto	currencies	measure	up?
¨ As	units	of	account,	there	is	no	reason	to	doubt	that	they	
can	function,	since	they	are	fungible,	divisible	and	
countable.	
¨ The	weakest	link	in	crypto	currencies	has	been	their	
failure	to	make	deeper	inroads	as	mediums	of	exchange	
or	as	stores	of	value.	
¨ Using	Bitcoin,	to	illustrate,	it	is	disappointing	that so	few	
retailers	still	accept	it	as	payment	for	goods	and	services.	
Even	the	much	hyped	successes,	such	as Overstock and	
Microsoft	accepting	Bitcoin	is	illusory,	since	they	do	so	
on	limited	items,	and only	with	an	intermediary	who	
converts	the	bitcoin	into	US	dollars	for	them.
11
Why	the	slow	acceptance?
¨ Inertia:	Fiat	currencies	have	a	had	a	long	run,	and	it	is	not	
surprising	that	for	many	people,	currency	is	physical	and	
takes	the	form	of	government	issued	paper	and	coins.	
¨ Price	volatility:	Crypto	currencies	have	seen	and	continue	to	
see	wild	swings	in	prices,	not	a	bad	characteristic	in	a	traded	
asset	but	definitely	not	a	good	one	in	a	currency.	
¨ Competing	crypto	currencies:	The	crypto	currency	game	is	
still	young	and	the	competing	players	each	claim	to	have	
found	the	"magic	bullet"	for	eventual	acceptance.	As	
technologies	and	tastes	evolve,	you	will	see	a	thinning	of	the	
herd,	where	buyers	and	sellers	will	pick	 winners,	perhaps	
from	the	current	list	or	maybe	something	new.
12
The	Disconnect
13
Explaining	the	Disconnect
¨ Markets	are	forward	looking:	Market	are	forward	looking	and	that	
the	rise	in	the	prices	of	Bitcoin	and	Ether	reflects	market	
expectations	that	they	will	succeed	as	currencies,	if	not	right	away,	
in	the	near	future.
¨ Speculative	asset:	In	the	value	game,	you	try	to	attach	a	value	to	an	
asset	based	upon	fundamentals,	and	in	the	pricing	game,	it	is	mood	
and	momentum	that	drive	the	process.	Crypto	currency	markets	
are	pure	pricing	games,	where	fundamentals	have	been	long	since	
forgotten
¨ Loss	of	trust	in	centralized	authorities	(governments	&amp;	central	
banks):	Gold	has	held	a	special	place	in	the	currency	continuum,	
often	being	the	asset	of	last	resort	for	people	who	have	lost	faith	in	
fiat	currencies.	For	some	people	(especially	younger	and	more	
technologically	inclined),	bitcoin	and	ether	are	playing	the	same	
role.
14
Gold	versus	Crypto	Currencies
¨ Time	tested?	Gold	has	held	its	value	through	the	
centuries	and	is	a	physical	asset.	For	better	or	worse,	it	is	
unlikely	that	we	will	decide	a	few	years	from	now	that	
gold	is	worthless.	
¨ The	Currency	Test:	A	crypto	currency	that	few	people	use	
as	currency	ultimately	will	not	be	able	to	sustain	itself,	as	
shiner	and	newer	versions	of	it	pop	up.	Ironically,	if	
traders	in	bitcoin	and	ether	want	their	investments	in	
the	crypto	currencies	to	hold	their	value,	the	currencies	
have	to	become	less	exciting	and	lucrative	as	
investments,	and	become	more	accepted	as	currencies.
15
Key	tests	for	success	in	crypto	currencies..
¨ Transaction,	not	trading,	talk:	From	creators	and	
proponents	of	the	currency,	you	will	hear	less	talk	about	
how	much	money	you	would	make	by	buying	and	selling	
the	currency	and	more	on	its	efficacy	in	transactions.
¨ Transaction,	not	trading,	features:The	design	of	the	
crypto	currency	will	focus	on	creating	features	that	make	
it	attractive	as	a	currency	(for	transactions),	not	as	
investments.	
¨ Trust	in	something:	To	be	effective	as	a	currency,	you	do	
need	to	be	able	to	trust	in	something	and	perhaps	
accept	compromises	on	privacy	and	centralized	authority	
(at	least	on	some	dimensions	of	the	currency).
16
The	Cap	Effect:	An	Acid	Test
¨ Bitcoin	and	ether	miners	have	been	willing	to	put	in	
the	effort	to	validate	transactions	because	they	are	
rewarded	with	issues	of	the	currency,	feasible	now	
because	there	is	slack	in	the	currency	(the	current	
number	is	below	the	cap).	
¨ As	the	cap	becomes	a	binding	constraint,	the	
rewards	from	miners	have	to	come	from	
transactions	costs	and	serious	thought	has	to	go	into	
currency	design	to	keep	these	costs	low.
17
A	“Fair”	price	for	Crypto	Currencies
¨ A	fair	exchange	rate	between	two	fiat	currencies	will	be	
on	that equalizes	their	purchasing	power,	an	old,	
imperfect	and	powerful	theorem.	
¨ If	you	are	paying	$2,775	for	a	bitcoin	on	August	1,	2017,	
is	whether	you	can	(or	even	will	be	able	to)	but	$2,775	
worth	of	goods	and	services	with	that	bitcoin.	
¤ If	you	believe	that	bitcoin	will	eventually	get	wide	acceptance	as	
a	digital	currency,	you	may	be	able	to	justify	that	price,	
especially	because	there	is	a	hard	cap	on	bitcoin
¤ If	you	don't	believe	that	bitcoin	will	ever	acquire	wide	
acceptance	in	transactions,	it	is	time	that	you	were	honest	with	
yourself	and	recognized	that	is	just	a	lucrative,	but	dangerous,	
pricing	game	with	no	good	ending.
18
Digital	Currencies
¨ Not	there	yet:	Crypto	currencies,	with	bitcoin	and	ether	
leading	the	pack,	have	succeeded	in	financial	markets	by	
attracting	investors,	and	in	the	public	discourse	by	garnering	
attention,	but	they	have	not	succeeded	(yet)	as	currencies.	
¨ But	they	are	coming:	There	will	be	one	or	more	digital	
currencies	competing	with	fiat	currencies	for	transactions,	
sooner	rather	than	later .	I	am	hard	pressed	to	find	a	winner	
on	the	current	list,	right	now,	but	that	could	change	if	the	
focus	shifts	from	trading	to	transactions.
¨ Winner	could	be	a	new	entrant:	If	that	does	not	happen,	we	
will	have	to	wait	for	a	fresh	entrant	and	the	most	enduring	
part	of	this	phase	in	markets	may	be	the	block	chain	and	not	
the	currencies	themselves.
