Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DiscountRateMyth1.pdf

Discount	Rate	Myth	1:	If	you	
don’t	like	betas,	you	cannot	do	a	
DCF
Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater…
2
Discount	Rates	in	a	DCF
At	its	core,	DCF	value	is	captured	in	one	equation:
Put	differently,	it	ties	the	value	of	an	asset	to	expected	
cash	flows,	the	growth	in	these	cashflows	and	the	
risk	(in	the	discount	rate)
3
Discount	Rate:	Cost	of	equity	vs	capital
4
The	Building	Blocks	for	the	MPT	view	of	
discount	rates
1. Marginal	investor	focus:	The	risk	in	an	investment	
should	be	measured	from	the	perspective	of	the	
marginal	investor,	i.e.,	the	investor	who	at	the	margin	
prices	the	stock	(not	your	eyes	or	mine).	The	risk	in	a	
stock	can	be	very	different	for	one	who	owns	just	that	
stock	versus	one	who	is	diversified.
2. A	menu	of	investment	choices:	The	marginal	investor	
can	not	only	decide	what	stocks	to	invest	in	but	has	to	
choose	between	risky	and	risk	free	investments.
3. A	trust	in	markets:	Markets,	in	general,	do	a	good	job	
of	assessing	value.	Variations	in	prices	therefore	reflect	
variations	in	value.
5
Risk	and	Return	Models:	Modern	Portfolio	
Theory
Model Assumptions Risk Measure
The CAPM (1) There	are	no	transactions	costs	&	
(2)		There	is	no	private	information.
The	marginal	investors	will	be	fully	
diversified	and	hold	a	portfolio	of	every	
traded	asset	in	the	market.	The	risk	of	an	
individual	asset	will	be	captured	by	the	
risk	added	to	this	market	portfolio,	and	
measured	with	a	single	beta,	measured	
against	the	market.
The APM The	market	prices	of	stocks	are	the	best	
indicators	of	market	and	firm-specific	
risks,	with	market	risks	affecting	all	or	
many	stocks	and	firm-specific	risks	not.
Historical	stock	returns	can	be	analyzed	
to	identify	the	number	of	market	risk	
factors	and	the	exposure	of	each	stock	to	
that	market	risk.	Since	this	is	a	statistical	
model,	the	factors	will	be	unnamed.	The	
risk	in	a	stock	will	be	captured	with	
betas,	measured	against	these	unnamed	
factors.
The Multifactor Model Market	risk	factors	have	to	be	
macroeconomic,	to	affect	many	stocks	at	
the	same	time.	Looking	at	how	a	stock	
behaves,	relative	to	different	
macroeconomic	variables,	should	yield	
clues	to	its	market	risk	exposure.
The	risk	in	a	stock	will	be	captured	with	
betas,	measured	against	specified	
macroeconomic	factors.
6
You	may	not	like	the	use	of	beta	and	
betas..	And	here	are	the	two	big	reasons
¨ The	focus	on	the	diversified	marginal	investor:	You	
may	either	not	believe	that	the	marginal	investors	in	
companies	are	diversified	or	that	investors	tend	to	
ignore	risk	that	is	firm	specific.
¨ The	use	of	market	prices	to	get	a	risk	measure	in	an	
intrinsic	valuation:	After	all,	the	reason	that	you	do	
intrinsic	valuation	is	because	you	believe	that	
markets	make	mistakes,	and	if	so,	using	those	
markets	to	get	your	intrinsic	risk	measures	seems	
inconsistent.
7
Alternative	Risk	and	Return	Modelss
8
The	Bottom	Line
¨ The	DCF	model	is	agnostic	about	what	model	or	
assumptions	that	you	use	to	arrive	at	a	discount	
rate.	Hence,	you	can	use	the	CAPM,	accounting	ratio	
based	risk	models	or	subjective	approaches	to	
estimate	discount	rates.
¨ If	you	don’t	like	modern	portfolio	theory,	don’t	use	
its	models	to	estimate	risk.	Use	an	alternate	model	
and	move	on.	The	real	work	in	DCF	is	yet	to	come.
