Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/Slides/Session2.pdf

SESSION 2: SAMPLES AND 
POPULATIONS
Session 2
Bias and Noise
2
Populations and Sample
qPopulation versus Sample: A population includes the universe 
of all instances of an object or phenomenon that you are 
trying to study. A sample is a subset of that population that 
you collect data on, and use, to make judgments about the 
behavior of the population.
qTime Series versus Cross Section: The data that you are trying 
to study can be a phenomenon that you observe over time 
(time series data) or across different subjects at a point in 
time (cross sectional data).
qTime Series Example: If stock returns over time is your population, 
stock returns from 1960-2021 is a sample. 
qCross sectional Example:  If all publicly traded companies is your 
population, looking at only US companies or companies with market 
caps that exceed $10 million is a sample.
3
Why do we need sampling?
1. Practicality: If the population is too large to collect 
data on, and/or a subset (small or large) of the 
population is inaccessible, you have no choice but 
to sample the data.
2. Costs: Even if you could collect data on the entire 
population, the costs (in time and money) may 
outweigh the benefits of doing so.
3. Time trade off: Related to the second point is the 
question of how frequently you want to update the 
data. It is easier to update sampled data than data 
on the entire population.
4
Sampling Approaches
¨Probability versus Non-probability Sampling: In a 
probability-based sample, the observations/subjects are 
picked at random. In a non-probability sample, the 
researcher hand picks the sample, based upon criteria 
that he or she picks.
¨Variants of Random Sampling:
¤Simple Random: In a simple random sample, you pick your 
sample randomly across the entire population. 
¤Stratified Random: In a stratified random sample, you first break 
your population down into groupings, and then randomly pick 
from within each of these groupings.
¤Cluster Random: In a cluster random sample, you break the 
population into groups, and then randomly select some of these 
groups and collect data on each group member .
5
Sampling Bias
¨To the extent that you intend to extrapolate your findings on 
a sample to the entire population, you want to ensure that 
you don’t have a biased sample.
¨A biased sample is one that diverges from the population in 
its characteristics. That bias can arise for many reasons 
including:
¤Exclusion: Some parts of the population may not even make into the 
sampling universe.
¤Self-selection: Some parts of the population may be more easily 
accessible than other parts, given how you collect data.
¤Non-response: Some parts of the population may be less likely to 
respond to requests for data.
¤Survivorship: Success (or failure, sometimes) may make an observation 
more likely to be sampled.
6
And its consequences…
¨If there is sampling bias, and you are or choose to be 
unaware of that bias, the extrapolations that you 
make from your sampling findings to the population 
will be biased.
¨If there is sampling bias, and you are aware of it, you 
can try to correct for it, as you extrapolate your 
findings to the population.
¨If there is sampling bias, and you cannot correct for 
it, you can narrow your findings to reflect the 
portion of the population that is represented by your 
sample.
7
Sampling Noise/ Error
¨If a sample is unbiased, the results that you get from 
that sample can be extrapolated to the population, but 
with error (usually measured with a standard error on 
your forecast).
¨That error is called sampling noise and will decrease as 
the sample size increases. 
¤In a classic example, consider the odds of getting a head or a 
tail on an (unbiased) coin toss. Even though we know the 
population odds (50/50), you can get results that diverge on a 
small number of tosses. As the number of tosses increase, the 
sample numbers will also approach 50/50.
¤More generally, sampling noise is part and parcel of the process 
and all you can do is be transparent about it, andreport it.
8
Independence + ID: Not just buzz words
¨In almost any discussion of sampling and statistics, you will hear 
the words “independence” and “identical distributions” thrown in 
as pre-requisites or at least good qualities in a sample.
¤Independence: Events are independent when whether an event occurs or 
not is not determined by other events occurring.
nCointossesareaclassicexampleofindependence
nArestockpricechangesindependent?
¤Identical Distributions: Each event draws from thesame probability 
distribution.
nCointossesdrawfromthesamedistribution(50/50)
nDostockprice changes draw from the same distribution?
¨In finance, researchers often assume independence and identical 
distributions, in making assertions based upon samples, but the 
truth is that both characteristics are hard to find.
9
The Law of Large Numbers
¨The Law of Large Numbers: As the number of observations in 
a sample increases, the sample average will approach the 
population average (or the true average), if the observations 
are independent(I)and identically distributed (ID).
¨There are a few exceptions to the law of large numbers. 
¤The first is if the sample observations are not independent or 
identically distributed.
¤The other is for distributions with fat tails (higher chance of extreme 
outcomes).
¨The Weak Law of Large Numbers: Even when observations 
are not independent or identically distributed, the sample 
average will approach the population average,albeitslower
andonlyifthevarianceisfinite.
10
Sampling Error Theorems/Propositions
¨Central Limit Theorem: Even if your population 
distributionisnon-normal,themeansofanysamples
that you pull from that distribution will follow a normal 
distribution, as long asyou the observations are 
independent and identically distributed.
¨Chebyshev's inequality :  In a normal distribution, for 
instance, roughly two thirds of the values have tofall 
within one standard deviation of the mean and 95% 
within two standard deviations. Chebyshev's inequality 
is more general, stating that a minimum of just 75% of 
values must lie within two standard deviations of the 
mean and 88.89% within three standard deviations for a 
broad range of different probability distributions.
