Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/MoodysDowngrade.pdf

Aaano more!
§I was on vacation with my family in August 2011 when I received an email 
from a journalist asking me what I thought about the S&P ratings 
downgrade for the US from AAA, the highest sovereign rating that can be 
granted to a country, to AA+, reflecting their concerns about both the fiscal 
challenges faced by the country, with mounting trade and budget deficits, 
as well as the willingness of its political institutions to flirt with the 
possibility of default. 
§For more than a decade, S&P remained the outlier, but in 2023, Fitch joined 
it by alsodowngrading the US from AAA to AA+, citing the same reasons.
§That left Moody's, the third of the major sovereign ratings agencies, as the 
only one that persisted with a Aaa(Moody's equivalent of AAA) for the US, 
but that changed on May 16, 2025, when it too downgraded the US from 
Aaa(negative) to Aa1 (stable). Since the ratings downgrade happened 
after close of trading on a Friday, there was concern that markets would 
wake up last Monday (May 19) to a wave of selling, and while that did not 
materialize, the rest of the week was a down week for both stocks and US 
treasury bonds, especially at the longest end of the maturity spectrum. 
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
§Default has a negative impact on the economy, with real GDP dropping 
between 0.5% and 2%, but the bulk of the decline is in the first year after 
the default and seems to be short lived.
§Default does affect a country’s long-term sovereign rating and 
borrowing costs. In the same vein, defaulting countries have borrowing 
costs that are about 0.5 to 1% higher than countries that have not 
defaulted. Here again, though, the effects of default dissipate over time.
§Sovereign default can cause trade retaliation. One study indicates a 
drop of 8% in bilateral trade after default, with the effects lasting for up to 
15 years, and another one that uses industry level data finds that export-
oriented industries are particularly hurt by sovereign default.
§Sovereign default can make banking systems more fragile. A study of 
149 countries between 1975 and 2000 indicates that the probability of a 
banking crisis is 14% in countries that have defaulted, an eleven 
percentage-point increase over non-defaulting countries.
§Sovereign default also increases the likelihood of political change.. A 
study of devaluations between 1971 and 2003 finds a 45% increase in the 
probability of change in the top leader (prime minister or president) in the 
country and a 64% increase in the probability of change in the finance 
executive (minister of finance or head of central bank).
Aswath Damodaran 5
¨7
Aswath Damodaran 8
Aswath Damodaran 9
§Ratings are upward biased: Ratings agencies have been accused of 
being far too optimistic in their assessments of both corporate and 
sovereign ratings. 
§There is herd behavior: When one ratings agency lowers or raises a 
sovereign rating, other ratings agencies seem to follow suit. 
§Too little, too late: To price sovereign bonds (or set interest rates on 
sovereign loans), investors (banks) need assessments of default risk that 
are updated and timely. 
§Vicious Cycle: Once a market is in crisis, there is the perception that 
ratings agencies sometimes overreact and lower ratings too much, thus 
creating a feedback effect that makes the crisis worse. This is especially 
true for small countries that are mostly dependent on foreign capital for 
their funds.
§Regional biases: There are many, especially in Asia and Latin America, 
that believe that the ratings agencies are too lax in assessing default risk 
for North America and Europe, overrating countries in those regions, 
while being too stringent and narrow in their assessments of default in 
Asia, Latin America and Africa, underrating countries in those regions.
§A sovereign default has both economic and political roots, 
since a government that is intent on preserving its credit 
standing will often find ways to pay its debt and avoid default. 
§For decades now, the US has enjoyed special status with 
markets and institutions (like ratings agencies), built as much 
on its institutional stability (legal and regulatory) as it was on its 
economic power. 
§The Moody's downgrade seems to me a signal that those days 
might be winding down, and that the United States, like the rest 
of the world, will face more accountability for lack of discipline 
in its fiscal and monetary policy.
§Lack of surprise effect: While the timing of the Moody's 
downgrade was unexpected, the downgrade itself was not 
surprising for two reasons. First, since S&P and Fitch had already 
downgraded the US, Moody's was the outlier in giving the US a Aaa
rating, and it was only a matter of time before it joined the other 
two agencies. Second, Moody's changed its outlook for the US to 
negative in November 2023, and while the rating remained 
unchanged until May 2025, it was clearly considering the 
downgraded in the months leading up to it.
§Magnitude of private capital: The immediate effect of a 
sovereign ratings downgrade is on government borrowing, and 
what the US does borrow vast amounts, private capital (in the form 
of equity and debt) is a far bigger source of financing and funding 
for the economy.
§Ratings change: The ratings downgrade wsmore of a blow to 
pride than to finances, since the default risk (and default spread) 
difference between an Aaarating and a Aa1 rating is small.
§In principle, the riskfree rate is what you will earn on a 
guaranteed investment in a currency, and any risk premiums, 
either for investing in equity (equity risk premium) or in fixed 
income securities (default spreads), are added to it. 
§It is standard practice in many textbooks and classrooms to use 
the government bond rate as the risk free rate, but that is built 
on the presumption that governments cannot default (at least 
on bonds issued in the local currency). 
§Using a Aaa(AAA) rating as a (lazy) proxy for default-free, that 
is the rationale used to justify government bond rates as 
riskfree rates at the start of 2025.
§Now that the US is no longer Aaarated, we have to follow a 
similar process to get a riskfree rate in US dollars:
§US 10-year treasury bond rate on May 30, 2025 = 4.41%
§Default spread based on Aa1 rating on May 30, 2025 = 0.40%
§Riskfree rate in US dollars on May 30, 2025 = US 10-year treasury 
rate -Aa1 default spread = 4.41% -0.40% = 4.01%
§This adjustment yields a riskfree rate of 4.01% in US dollars, 
and it is also built on the presumption that the default 
spread manifested after the Moody's downgrade on May 16, 
when the more realistic reading is that US treasury markets 
have been carrying a default spread embedded in them for 
years, and that we are not making it explicit.
§Incorporating the effects of the downgrade changes the 
composition of that expected return, resulting in a lower 
riskfree rate and a higher equity risk premium. 
§Thus, while the expected return for the average stock remains 
at 8.64%, the expected return increasing slightly for riskier 
stocks and decreases slightly for safer stocks, but the effects 
are so small that investors hardly notice. 
§If there is a lesson for analysts here, it is that the downgrade's 
effects on the discount rates (costs of equity and capital) are 
minimal, and that staying with the conventional approach (of 
using the ten-year US treasury bond rate as the riskfree 
rate and using that rate to compute the equity risk 
premium) will continue to work.
§The financial and economic consequences, at least so far, have 
been inconsequential, with equity and bond markets shrugging off 
the downgrade, perhaps because the surprise factor was minimal. 
§The downgrade also has had only a minimal impact on costs of equity 
and capital for US companies, and while that may change, the changes 
will come from macroeconomic news or from crises. 
§For the most part, analysts should be able to continue to work with the 
US treasury rate as a riskfree rate and forward-looking equity risk 
premiums, as they did before the downgrade. 
§With all of that said, though, the Moody's action does carry 
symbolic weight, another indicator that US exceptionalism, which 
allowed the US to take actions that would have brought blowback 
for other countries, especially in emerging markets, without much 
pushback, is coming to an end. That is healthy, in the long term, for 
both the United States and the rest of the world, but it will come 
with short term pain.
