Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate8.pdf

DATA	2017	UPDATE	8:	DEBT ,	THE	
DARK	AND	LIGHT	SIDES
Aswath	Damodaran
2
Debt	versus	Equity:	The	Real	Factors
3
Debt	versus	Equity:	The	Illusory	Factors
4
Debt	versus	Equity:	The	Transient	Factors
¨ To	the	extent	that	your	equity	is	mis-priced	or	your	
debt	carries	the	wrong	interest	rate,	market	frictions	
can	affect	your	debt/equity	mix,	in	either	direction:
¤ If	equity	is	over	priced	and	debt	carries	too	high	an	interest	
rate,	you	will	use	more	equity	&	less	debt
¤ If	equity	is	under	priced	and	debt	carries	too	low	an	
interest	rate,	you	will	use	more	debt	&	less	equity.
¨ This	requires	the	firm	to	be	able	to	determine	what	
the	right	value	for	its	equity	is	and	what	interest	rate	
it	should	be	paying	on	its	debt.
5
Measures	of	Financial	Leverage
¨ Debt	to	Capital =	Debt/	(Debt +	Equity):	This	is	a	measure	
of	how	much	of	the	capital	in	a	company	comes	from	
debt.	It	can	be	measured	as	accountants	see	value	(with	
book	values	for	debt	and	equity)	or	as	the	market	sees	it	
(with	market	values	for	debt	and	equity).
¨ Debt	to	Equity =	Debt/Equity:	This	is	a	close	variant	of	
debt	to	capital,	with	debt	stated	as	a	percent	of	equity,	
again	in	book	value	or	market	value	terms.
¨ Debt	to	EBITDA =	Debt/EBITDA:	This	measures	how	
much	debt	a	company	has	relative	to	the	cash	it	
generates	from	operations,	before	taxes	and	capital	
expenditures.
6
The	Cross	Sectional	Distribution
7
A	Country-by-Country	Look
8
Most	and	Least	Levered	Sectors
9
A	Year	of	Change?
¨ Tax	changes	coming:	The	coming	year	is	likely	to	be	one	of	
change,	at	least	for	the	US	tax	code	and	almost	every	version	
of	tax	reform	that	is	being	talked	about	will	reduce	the	
marginal	tax	rate	and	therefore	the	tax	benefits	of	debt.	In	
fact,	there	are	some	versions	where	the	entire	tax	benefit	of	
debt	will	be	removed.	
¨ With	big	consequences:	While	I	believe	that	this	will	be	
healthier	in	the	long	term,	it	will	be	a	seismic	shift	that	will	
have	massive	effects	not	just	on	corporate	borrowing	but	on	
the	corporate	bond	market.	
¨ We’re	not	ready:	I	am	not	sure	that	we	are	ready	for	that	big	
a	change.	So,	small	steps	way	from	the	status	quo,	which	is	
skewed	strongly	towards	borrowers,	may	be	all	that	you	can	
expect	to	see.
