Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/WarandOil.pdf

Timetopanic?
2
§The month started with a war in the Middle East, which quickly 
percolated into soaring oil prices and dropping stock prices, but 
the overwhelming factor was uncertainty about almost every 
dimension of the war -how long it would last, what permanent 
changes to oil prices would emerge as a consequenceand how 
global governments and economies would response to these 
changes. 
§As we reach the end of the month, rather than getting answers 
to these questions, we face more questions, and not surprisingly, 
markets are swinging, not just on a day-to-day basis, but in 
intraday trading, driven as much by rumors and conjecture, as by 
facts. 
§In keeping with my view that it is during periods of maximal 
uncertainty that you need perspective and to back to basics, I 
will focus my attention on market behavior in March, and what we 
can learn from that behavior, as a precursor for the months to 
come.
3
§We live in an age of commentary , as self-proclaimed 
experts offer prognostications, half-baked or otherwise, 
about what is to come, and the Iran war, with its mix of 
politics, economics and religion baked in,, has drawn a large 
and extremely diverse set of expert forecasts. 
§Given the strong priors (about Iran and Trump) that many 
of these experts bring to the game, it should not be 
surprising that their views about how the war will play out 
and the effect on markets is predictable. 
§It is up to markets to reconcile these contradictory 
perspectives, and come to consensus, and I will try to extract 
from market behavior what the market narrative is, leading into 
April 2026, with the recognition that it could change overnight 
in good and bad ways.
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
13
14
15
§The war has shaken up the status quo, and I see lasting 
consequences that go well beyond oil.
§The capital flows from the oil rich countries which has flowed 
generously to everything from AI start ups to Premier League 
clubs will shrink, creating down-market effects.Thatwillhave
consequencesforthesupplyofriskcapital.
§That money, and the funds that were set aside to build vanity 
projects, from ski resorts in the deserts to state-of-the-art 
cities will be redirected to building pipelines and securing 
the flow of oil.
