Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate7for2020.pdf

JANUARY 2020 DATA UPDATE 7: 
DEBT’S DARK SIDE IS SHOWING
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Debt Story
¨ In this session, I look at the debt burden that firms 
operate under, since companies with higher debt 
burdens, other things remaining equal, are more 
exposed to failure and distress than companies without 
those burdens. 
¨ I will look at the degree of indebtedness of companies 
around the world, broken out by industry and region, 
partly with an eye on assessing how much danger they 
are exposed to right now, as their near term business 
prospects collapse, and partly to see which firms, 
industries and regions are best positioned to make it 
through this crisis.
3
The Debt Trade off: Illusory Factors
4
The Real Debt Equity Trade off
5
Implications for Debt
¨ Tax benefits are lower: In the United States, for instance, 
the corporate tax reform act of 2017, in addition to 
lowering the federal corporate tax to 21% from 35, also 
put limits on interest deductions, thus making debt 
significantly less beneficial to companies. 
¨ Good times don’t last: Even before this crisis hit, there 
were questions about whether a long stretch of good 
times for companies had made them too complacent 
about distress risks and expected bankruptcy costs, and 
now after the crisis, there is no debating that many 
companies have too much debt, given near term 
earnings and perhaps even long term earnings.
6
The Debt Burden: Defining Debt
¨ For those who trust accounting statements, this may 
seem redundant, given that there is a debt number 
listed on balance sheets, reflecting what companies 
owe at least on the date of the statement. 
¨ As someone who does not share that trust, I use a 
two-part test to determine whether to include a 
claim in debt or not:
¤ Does the claim give rise to a contractual commitment that 
you have to meet in good times and in bad?
¤ If you fail to meet that commitment, what are the 
consequences?
7
Putting the tests to work..
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ All interest-bearing debt, short term as well as long term, 
floating or fixed, meets the requirements for debt. 
¨ Accounts payable and supplier credit don't meet that test, 
because they do not have explicit interest expenses. 
¨ All lease commitments are debt, though we can debate the 
maturity of the commitment (based upon escape clauses and 
renewal terms in the leases) and whether it is secured or 
unsecured debt. 
¤ Until 2019, accountants followed a misguided practice, allowing 
companies to categorize leases, based upon ownership rights, into 
operating and capital leases, with only the latter being treated as debt. 
In the process, operating leases became the biggest source of off -
balance sheet debt for retailers, restaurants and other big lessees. 
¤ In 2019, both GAAP (FASB 842) and IFRS (IAS 16) came to their senses 
and required companies to treat all leases as debt.
8
Measuring Debt Burden
9
The Debt Danger
10
Debt at the start of 2020
¨ I have included all interest bearing debt, as reported by the 
company, on its most recent financial statements as both the book 
value and market value of debt. 
¨ I have computed the lease debt, using lease commitments and an 
estimated cost of debt for each company, rather than trust the 
accounting estimates of this debt, at least for 2019. 
¤ That is partly because the rule change applies only to those sections of the 
world that are covered by IFRS and GAAP and partly because I don't trust 
accountants yet, on this measure.
¤ To compute the net debt, I subtract out the cash and marketable securities 
that the company reports on its latest financial statements.
¨ Since debt to a financial service firm is more raw material than 
capital and determining what comprises debt is almost an 
unsolvable puzzle, I have excluded banks, insurance companies and 
brokerage firms/investment banks from my sample.
11
Debt Levels: A Regional Breakdown
12
Debt Levels: Most and lest levered
13
Debt Buffer: By Region
14
Debt Buffer: Most and Least Buffered
15
Lessons: Learned & Unlearned
¨ Every crisis creates lessons that are temporarily learned, but 
quickly forgotten. This one is a reminder to firms that debt, 
while making good times better for equity investors, makes 
bad times worse. 
¨ For some of these firms, that debt will threaten their 
continued existence of companies and result in liquidations, 
fire sales and distress. For others, it will create constraints for 
the near future on growth and investment plans and change 
business plans. 
¨ For firms that are lightly burdened, it may create 
opportunities, as they use their liquidity as a strategic 
weapon in acquisitions and to increase market share. 
¨ If you were worried about winner take all markets before this 
crisis, you should be doubly worried now!
