Source: http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/pdfiles/papers/probabilistic.pdf

1 
PROBABILISTIC APPROACHES: SCENARIO ANALYSIS, 
DECISION TREES AND SIMULATIONS 
 In the last chapter, we examined ways in which we can adjust the value of a risky 
asset for its risk. Notwithstanding their popularity, all of the approaches share a common 
theme. The riskiness of an asset is encapsulated in one number – a higher discount rate, 
lower cash flows or a discount to the value – and the computation almost always requires 
us to make assumptions (often unrealistic) about the nature of risk.  
 In this chapter, we consider a different and potentially more informative way of 
assessing and presenting the risk in an investment. Rather than compute an expected 
value for an asset that that tries to reflect the different possible outcomes, we could 
provide information on what the value of the asset will be under each outcome or at least 
a subset of outcomes. We will begin this section by looking at the simplest version which 
is an analysis of an asset’s value under three scenarios – a best case, most likely case and 
worse case – and then extend the discussion to look at scenario analysis more generally. 
We will move on to examine the use of decision trees, a more complete approach to 
dealing with discrete risk. We will close the chapter by evaluating Monte Carlo 
simulations, the most complete approach of assessing risk across the spectrum. 
Scenario Analysis 
 The expected cash flows that we use to value risky assets can be estimated in one 
or two ways. They can represent a probability-weighted average of cash flows under all 
possible scenarios or they can be the cash flows under the most likely scenario. While the 
former is the more precise measure, it is seldom used simply because it requires far more 
information to compile. In both cases, there are other scenarios where the cash flows will 
be different from expectations; higher than expected in some and lower than expected in 
others. In scenario analysis, we estimate expected cash flows and asset value under 
various scenarios, with the intent of getting a better sense of the effect of risk on value. In 
this section, we first consider an extreme version of scenario analysis where we consider 
the value in the best and the worst case scenarios, and then a more generalized version of 
scenario analysis.
2 
Best Case/ Worse Case 
 With risky assets, the actual cash flows can be very different from expectations. 
At the minimum, we can estimate the cash flows if everything works to perfection – a 
best case scenario – and if nothing does – a worst case scenario. In practice, there are two 
ways in which this analysis can be structured. In the first, each input into asset value is 
set to its best (or worst) possible outcome and the cash flows estimated with those values. 
Thus, when valuing a firm, you may set the revenue growth rate and operating margin at 
the highest possible level while setting the discount rate at its lowest level, and compute 
the value as the best-case scenario. The problem with this approach is that it may not be 
feasible; after all, to get the high revenue growth, the firm may have to lower prices and 
accept lower margins.  In the second, the best possible scenario is defined in terms of 
what is feasible while allowing for the relationship between the inputs. Thus, instead of 
assuming that revenue growth and margins will both be maximized, we will choose that 
combination of growth and margin that is feasible and yields the best outcome. While this 
approach is more realistic, it does require more work to put into practice. 
 How useful is a best case/worse case analysis? There are two ways in which the 
results from this analysis can be utilized by decision makers. First, the difference between 
the best-case and worst-case value can be used as a measure of risk on an asset; the range 
in value (scaled to size) should be higher for riskier investments. Second, firms that are 
concerned about the potential spill over effects on their operations of an investment going 
bad may be able to gauge the effects by looking at the worst case outcome. Thus, a firm 
that has significant debt obligations may use the worst-case outcome to make a judgment 
as to whether an investment has the potential to push them into default. 
 In general, though, best case/worse case analyses are not very informative. After 
all, there should be no surprise in knowing that an asset will be worth a lot in the best 
case and not very much in the worst case. Thus, an equity research analyst who uses this 
approach to value a stock, priced at $ 50, may arrive at values of $ 80 for the best case 
and $ 10 for the worst case; with a range that large, it will be difficult to make a judgment 
on a whether the stock is a good investment or not at its current price of $50.
3 
Multiple scenario analysis 
 Scenario analysis does not have to be restricted to the best and worst cases. In its 
most general form, the value of a risky asset can be computed under a number of 
different scenarios, varying the assumptions about both macro economic and asset-
specific variables.  
Steps in scenario analysis 
While the concept of sensitivity analysis is a simple one, it has four critical 
components: 
• The first is the determination of which factors the scenarios will be built around. 
These factors can range from the state of the economy for an automobile firm 
considering a new plant, to the response of competitors for a consumer product firm 
introducing a new product, to the behavior of regulatory authorities for a phone 
company, considering a new phone service. In general, analysts should focus on the 
two or three most critical factors that will determine the value of the asset and build 
scenarios around these factors.  
• The second component is determining the number of scenarios to analyze for each 
factor. While more scenarios may be more realistic than fewer, it becomes more 
difficult to collect information and differentiate between the scenarios in terms of 
asset cash flows. Thus, estimating cash flows under each scenario will be easier if the 
firm lays out five scenarios, for instance, than if it lays out 15 scenarios. The question 
of how many scenarios to consider will depend then upon how different the scenarios 
are, and how well the analyst can forecast cash flows under each scenario. 
• The third component is the estimation of asset cash flows under each scenario. It is to 
ease the estimation at this step that we focus on only two or three critical factors and 
build relatively few scenarios for each factor.  
• The final component is the assignment of probabilities to each scenario. For some 
scenarios, involving macro-economic factors such as exchange rates, interest rates 
and overall economic growth, we can draw on the expertise of services that forecast 
these variables. For other scenarios, involving either the sector or competitors, we 
have to draw on our knowledge about the industry.  Note, though, that this makes
4 
sense only if the scenarios cover the full spectrum of possibilities. If the scenarios 
represent only a sub-set of the possible outcomes on an investment, the probabilities 
will not add up to one.  
The output from a scenario analysis can be presented as values under each scenario and 
as an expected value across scenarios (if the probabilities can be estimated in the fourth 
step). 
 This quantitative view of scenario analysis may be challenged by strategists, who 
have traditionally viewed scenario analysis as a qualitative exercise, whose primary 
benefit is to broaden the thinking of decision makers. As one strategist put it, scenario 
analysis is about devising “plausible future narratives” rather than probable outcomes; in 
other words, there are benefits to considering scenarios that have a very low probability 
of occurring.1 The benefits of the exercise is that it forces decision makers to consider 
views of what may unfold than differ from the “official view”. 
Examples of Scenario Analysis 
 To illustrate scenario analysis, consider a simple example. The Boeing 747 is the 
largest capacity airplane2 that Boeing manufactures for the commercial aerospace market 
and was introduced in 1974. Assume that Boeing is considering the introduction of a new 
large capacity airplane, capable of carrying 650 passengers, called the Super Jumbo, to 
replace the Boeing 747. Arguably, as the largest and longest-serving firm in the 
commercial aircraft market, Boeing knows the market better than any other firm in the 
world. Surveys and market testing of its primary customers, the airline companies, are 
unlikely to be useful tools in this case, for the following reasons. 
(a) Even if the demand exists now, it will be several years before Boeing will actually be 
able to produce and deliver the aircraft; the demand can change by then. 
(b) Technologically, it is not feasible to produce a few Super Jumbo Jets for test 
marketing, since the cost of retooling plant and equipment will be huge. 
                                                
1 Randall, D. and C. Ertel, 2005, Moving beyond the official future, Financial Times Special Reports/ 
Mastering Risk, September 15, 2005. 
2 The Boeing 747 has the capacity to carry 416 passengers.
5 
(c) There are relatively few customers (the airlines) in the market, and Boeing is in 
constant contact with them. Thus, Boeing should already have a reasonable idea of 
what their current preferences are, in terms of the types of commercial aircraft. 
At the same time, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether airlines will be 
interested in a Super Jumbo Jet. The demand for this jet will be greatest on long-haul3, 
international flights, since smaller airplanes are much more profitable for short-haul, 
domestic flights. In addition, the demand is unlikely to support two large capacity 
airplanes, produced by different companies. Thus, Boeing’s expected revenues will 
depend upon two fundamental factors: 
• The growth in the long-haul, international market, relative to the domestic market. 
Arguably, a strong Asian economy will play a significant role in fueling this 
growth, since a large proportion4 of it will have to come from an increase in 
flights from Europe and North America to Asia.  
• The likelihood that Airbus, Boeing’s primary competitor, will come out with a 
larger version of its largest capacity airplane, the A-300, over the period of the 
analysis.  
We will consider three scenarios for the first factor –  
• A high growth scenario, where real growth in the Asian economies exceeds 7% a 
year,  
• An average growth scenario, where real growth in Asia falls between 4 and 7% a 
year,  
• A low growth scenario, where real growth in Asia falls below 4% a year.  
For the Airbus response, we will also consider three scenarios –  
• Airbus produces an airplane that has the same capacity as the Super Jumbo Jet, 
capable of carrying 650+ passengers,  
• Airbus produces an improved version of its existing A-300 jet that is capable of 
carrying 300+ passengers  
                                                
3 Since these planes cost a great deal more to operate, they tend to be most economical for flights over long 
distances. 
4 Flights from Europe to North America are clearly the largest segment of the market currently. It is also 
the segment least likely to grow because both markets are mature markets.
6 
• Airbus decides to concentrate on producing smaller airplanes and abandons the 
large-capacity airplane market.  
In table 6.1, we estimate the number of Super Jumbo jets that Boeing expects to sell 
under each of these scenarios: 
Table 6.1: Planes sold under Scenarios 
 Airbus Large Jet Airbus A-300 Airbus abandons 
large capacity 
airplane 
High Growth in 
Asia 
120 150 200 
Average Growth in 
Asia 
100 135 160 
Low Growth in Asia 75 110 120 
These estimates are based upon both Boeing’s knowledge of this market and responses 
from potential customers (willingness to place large advance orders). The cash flows can 
be estimated under each of the nine scenarios, and the value of the project can be 
computed under each scenario. 
 While many scenario analyses do not take this last step, we next estimate the 
probabilities of each of these scenarios occurring and report them in table 6.2.  
Table 6.2: Probabilities of Scenarios 
 Airbus Large 
Jet 
Airbus A-
300 
Airbus abandons large 
capacity airplane 
Sum 
High Growth in Asia 0.125 0.125 0.00 0.25 
Average Growth in 
Asia 
0.15 0.25 0.10 0.50 
Low Growth in Asia 0.05 0.10 0.10 0.25 
Sum 0.325 0.475 0.20 1.00 
These probabilities represent joint probabilities; the probability of Airbus going ahead 
with a large jet that will directly compete with the Boeing Super Jumbo in a high-growth 
Asian economy is 12.5%. Note also that the probabilities sum to 1, that summing up the 
probabilities, by column, yields the overall probabilities of different actions by Airbus,
7 
and that summing up the probabilities by row yields probabilities of different growth 
scenarios in Asia. Multiplying the probabilities by the value of the project under each 
scenario should yield an expected value for the project. 
Use in Decision Making 
 How useful is scenario analysis in value assessment and decision making? The 
answer, as with all tools, depends upon how it is used. The most useful information from 
a scenario analysis is the range of values across different scenarios, which provides a 
snap shot of the riskiness of the asset; riskier assets will have values that vary more 
across scenarios and safer assets will have manifest more value stability. In addition, 
scenario analysis can be useful in determining the inputs into an analysis that have the 
most effect on value. In the Boeing super Jumbo jet example, the inputs that have the 
biggest effect on the project’s value are the health and growth prospects of the Asian 
economy and whether Airbus decides to build a competing aircraft. Given the sensitivity 
of the decision to these variables, Boeing may devote more resources to estimating them 
better. With Asian growth, in particular, it may pay to have a more thorough analysis and 
forecast of Asian growth prospects before Boeing commits to this large investment. 
 There is one final advantage to doing scenario analysis. Assuming Boeing decides 
that investing in the Super Jumbo makes economic sense, it can take proactive steps to 
minimize the damage that the worst case scenarios create to value. To reduce the 
potential downside from Asian growth, Boeing may try to diversify its revenue base and 
try to sell more aircraft in Latin America and Eastern Europe. It could even try to alter the 
probability of Airbus developing a competitive aircraft by using a more aggressive “low 
price” strategy, where it gives up some margin in return for a lower likelihood of 
competition in the future. 
 If nothing else, the process of thinking through scenarios is a useful exercise in 
examining how the competition will react under different macro-economic environments 
and what can be done to minimize the effect of downside risk and maximize the effect of 
potential upside on the value of a risky asset. In an article in the Financial Times, the 
authors illustrate how scenario analysis can be used by firms considering investing large
8 
amounts in China to gauge potential risks.5 They consider four scenarios, built around 
how China will evolve over time –  
(a) Global Economic Partner: In this scenario (which they label the official 
future since so many firms seem to subscribe to it now), China grows both 
as an exporter of goods and as a domestic market for consumer goods, 
while strengthening legal protections for ownership rights. 
(b) Global Economic Predator: China remains a low-cost producer, with a 
tightly controlled labor force and an intentionally under valued currency. 
The domestic market for consumer goods is constrained and the protection 
of ownership right does not advance significantly. 
(c) Slow Growing Global Participant: China continues to grow, but at a much 
slower pace, as the challenges of entering a global market place prove to 
be more difficult than anticipated. However, the government stays in 
control of the environment and there is little overt trouble. 
(d) Frustrated and Unstable Outsider: China’s growth stalls, and political and 
economic troubles grow, potentially spilling over into the rest of Asia. The 
government becomes destabilized and strife spreads. 
Forward-looking firms, they argue, may go into China expecting the first scenario (global 
economic partner) but they need to be prepared, if the other scenarios unfold.  
Issues 
 Multiple scenario analysis provides more information than a best case/ worst case 
analysis by providing asset values under each of the specified scenarios. It does, however, 
have its own set of problems: 
1. Garbage in, garbage out: It goes without saying that the key to doing scenario analysis 
well is the setting up of the scenarios and the estimation of cash flows under each one. 
Not only do the outlined scenarios have to be realistic but they also have to try to cover 
the spectrum of possibilities. Once the scenarios have been laid out, the cash flows have 
                                                
5 Clemons, E.K., S. Barnett and J. Lanier, 2005, Fortune favors the forward-thinking, Financial Times 
Special Reports / Mastering Risk, September 22, 2005.
9 
to be estimated under each one; this trade off has to be considered when determining how 
many scenarios will be run. 
2. Continuous Risk: Scenario analysis is best suited for dealing with risk that takes the 
form of discrete outcomes. In the Boeing example, whether Airbus develops a Super 
Jumbo or not is a discrete risk and the modeling of the scenario is straightforward. When 
the outcomes can take on any of a very large number of potential values or the risk is 
continuous, it becomes more difficult to set up scenarios. In the Boeing example, we have 
categorized the “growth in Asia” variable into three groups – high, average and low – but 
the reality is that the cut-off points that we used of 4% and 7% are subjective; thus a 
growth rate of 7.1% will put us in the high growth scenario but a growth rate of 6.9% will 
yield an average growth scenario. 
3. Double counting of risk: As with the best case/ worst case analysis, there is the danger 
that decision makers will double count risk when they do scenario analysis. Thus, an 
analyst, looking at the Boeing Super Jumbo jet analysis, may decide to reject the 
investment, even though the value of the investment (estimated using the risk adjusted 
discount rate) exceeds the cost at the expected production of 125 planes, because there is 
a significant probability (30%) that the sales will fall below the break even of 115 planes. 
Since the expected value is already risk adjusted, this would represent a double counting 
of potentially the same risk or risk that should not be a factor in the decision in the first 
place (because it is diversifiable). 
Decision Trees 
 In some projects and assets, risk is not only discrete but is sequential. In other 
words, for the asset to have value, it has to pass through a series of tests, with failure at 
any point potentially translating into a complete loss of value. This is the case, for 
instance, with a pharmaceutical drug that is just being tested on human beings. The three-
stage FDA approval process lays out the hurdles that have to be passed for this drug to be 
commercially sold, and failure at any of the three stages dooms the drug’s chances. 
Decision trees allow us to not only consider the risk in stages but also to devise the right 
response to outcomes at each stage.
10 
Steps in Decision Tree Analysis 
 The first step in understanding decision trees is to distinguish between root nodes, 
decision nodes, event nodes and end nodes.  
• The root node represents the start of the decision tree, where a decision maker can be 
faced with a decision choice or an uncertain outcome. The objective of the exercise is 
to evaluate what a risky investment is worth at this node. 
• Event nodes represent the possible outcomes on a risky gamble; whether a drug 
passes the first stage of the FDA approval process or not is a good example. We have 
to figure out the possible outcomes and the probabilities of the outcomes occurring, 
based upon the information we have available today. 
• Decision nodes represent choices that can be made by the decision maker –to expand 
from a test market to a national market, after a test market’s outcome is known.  
• End nodes usually represent the final outcomes of earlier risky outcomes and 
decisions made in response. 
Consider a very simple example. You are offered a choice where you can take a certain 
amount of $ 20 or partake in a gamble, where you can win $ 50 with probability 50% and 
$10 with probability 50%. The decision tree for this offered gamble is shown in figure 
6.1:
11 
Figure 6.1: Simple Decision Tree 
Take gamble
Accept fixed amount:
$ 20
Gamble
$ 30
Win big
Win small
$ 50
$ 10$ 30
50%
50%
Decision node
Event node
End node
 
Note the key elements in the decision tree. First, only the event nodes represent uncertain 
outcomes and have probabilities attached to them. Second, the decision node represents a 
choice. On a pure expected value basis, the gamble is better (with an expected value of $ 
30) than the guaranteed amount of $20; the double slash on the latter branch indicates 
that it would not be selected. While this example may be simplistic, the elements of 
building a decision tree are in it. 
 In general, developing a decision tree requires us to go through the following 
steps, though the details and the sequencing can vary from case to case: 
Step 1: Divide analysis into risk phases: The key to developing a decision tree is 
outlining the phases of risk that you will be exposed to in the future. In some cases, such 
as the FDA approval process, this will be easy to do since there are only two outcomes – 
the drug gets approved to move on to the next phase or it does not. In other cases, it will 
be more difficult. For instance, a test market of a new consumer product can yield
12 
hundreds of potential outcomes; here, you will have to create discrete categories for what 
would qualify as success in the test market. 
Step 2: In each phase, estimate the probabilities of the outcomes: Once the phases of the 
analysis have been put down and the outcomes at each phase are defined, the 
probabilities of the outcomes have to be computed. In addition to the obvious 
requirement that the probabilities across outcomes have to sum up to one, the analyst will 
also have to consider whether the probabilities of outcomes in one phase can be affected 
by outcomes in earlier phases. For example, how does the probability of a successful 
national product introduction change when the test market outcome is only average?  
Step 3: Define decision points: Embedded in the decision tree will be decision points 
where you will get to determine, based upon observing the outcomes at earlier stages, and 
expectations of what will occur in the future, what your best course of action will be. 
With the test market example, for instance, you will get to determine, at the end of the 
test market, whether you want to conduct a second test market, abandon the product or 
move directly to a national product introduction. 
Step 4: Compute cash flows/value at end nodes: The next step in the decision tree process 
is estimating what the final cash flow and value outcomes will be at each end node. In 
some cases, such as abandonment of a test market product, this will be easy to do and 
will represent the money spent on the test marketing of the product. In other cases, such 
as a national launch of the same product, this will be more difficult to do since you will 
have to estimate expected cash flows over the life of the product and discount these cash 
flows to arrive at value.  
Step 5: Folding back the tree: The last step in a decision tree analysis is termed “folding 
back’ the tree, where the expected values are computed, working backwards through the 
tree. If the node is a chance node, the expected value is computed as the probability 
weighted average of all of the possible outcomes. If it is a decision node, the expected 
value is computed for each branch, and the highest value is chosen (as the optimal 
decision). The process culminates in an expected value for the asset or investment today.6 
                                                
6 There is a significant body of literature examining the assumptions that have to hold for this folding back 
process to yield consistent values. In particular, if a decision tree is used to portray concurrent risks, the
13 
There are two key pieces of output that emerge from a decision tree. The first is 
the expected value today of going through the entire decision tree. This expected value 
will incorporate the potential upside and downside from risk and the actions that you will 
take along the way in response to this risk. In effect, this is analogous to the risk adjusted 
value that we talked about in the last chapter. The second is the range of values at the end 
nodes, which should encapsulate the potential risk in the investment.  
An Example of a Decision Tree 
 To illustrate the steps involved in developing a decision tree, let us consider the 
analysis of a pharmaceutical drug for treating Type 1 diabetes that has gone through 
preclinical testing and is about to enter phase 1 of the FDA approval process.7 Assume 
that you are provided with the additional information on each of the three phases: 
1. Phase 1 is expected to cost $ 50 million and will involve 100 volunteers to determine 
safety and dosage; it is expected to last 1 year. There is a 70% chance that the drug will 
successfully complete the first phase. 
2. In phase 2, the drug will be tested on 250 volunteers for effectiveness in treating 
diabetes over a two-year period. This phase will cost $ 100 million and the drug will have 
to show a statistically significant impact on the disease to move on to the next phase. 
There is only a 30% chance that the drug will prove successful in treating type 1 diabetes 
but there is a 10% chance that it will be successful in treating both type 1 and type 2 
diabetes and a 10% chance that it will succeed only in treating type 2 diabetes.  
3. In phase 3, the testing will expand to 4,000 volunteers to determine the long-term 
consequences of taking the drug. If the drug is tested on only type 1 or type 2 diabetes 
patients, this phase will last 4 years and cost $ 250 million; there is an 80% chance of 
success. If it is tested on both types, the phase will last 4 years and cost $ 300 million; 
there is a 75% chance of success.   
                                                                                                                                            
risks should be independent of each other. See Sarin, R. and P.Wakker, 1994, Folding Back in Decision 
Tree Analysis,  Management Science, v40, pg 625-628. 
7 In type 1 diabetes, the pancreas do not produce insulin. The patients are often young children and the 
disease is unrelated to diet and activity; they have to receive insulin to survive. In type 2 diabetes, the 
pancreas produce insufficient insulin. The disease manifests itself in older people and can be sometimes 
controlled by changing lifestyle and diet.
14 
If the drug passes through all 3 phases, the costs of developing the drug and the annual 
cash flows are provided below: 
Disease treatment Cost of Development Annual Cash Flow 
Type 1 diabetes only $ 500 million $ 300 million for 15 years 
Type 2 diabetes only $ 500 million $ 125 million for 15 years 
Type 1 and 2 diabetes $ 600 million $ 400 million for 15 years 
Assume that the cost of capital for the firm is 10%.  
 We now have the information to draw the decision tree for this drug. We will first 
draw the tree in figure 6.2, specifying the phases, the cash flows at each phase and the 
probabilities: 
Figure 6.2: Decision Tree for Drug Development 
Test
Abandon
Succeed
70%
Fail
30%
Types 1 & 2
Type 2
Type 1
Fail
10%
10%
30%
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Succeed
Succeed
Succeed
Fail
Fail
Fail
75%
25%
80%
20%
80%
20%-$50
-$100
-$250
-$250
--$300
$400(PVA,10%,15 years)
$125(PVA,10%,15 years)
$300(PVA,10%,15 years)
Year 1 Years 2-3Years 4-7 Years 8-22
50%
-$600
-$500
-$500
 
The decision tree shows the probabilities of success at each phase and the additional cash 
flow or marginal cash flow associated with each step. Since it takes time to go through 
the phases, there is a time value effect that has to be built into the expected cash flows for 
each path. We introduce the time value effect and compute the cumulative present value
15 
(today) of cash flows from each path, using the 10% cost of capital as the discount rate, 
in figure 6.3: 
Figure 6.3: Present Value of Cash Flows at End Nodes: Drug Development Tree 
Test
Abandon
Succeed
70%
Fail
30%
-$50
-$50-$100/1.1
Types 1 & 2
Type 2
Type 1
Fail
10%
10%
30%
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Succeed
Succeed
Succeed
Fail
Fail
Fail
75%
25%
80%
20%
80%
20%-$50 -$50-$100/1.1-250/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-250/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-300/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-300/1.13-[$600-
$400(PVA,10%,15 years)]/1.17
-$50-$100/1.1-300/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-250/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-250/1.13
-$50-$100/1.1-250/1.13-[$500-
$125(PVA,10%,15 years)]/1.17
-$50-$100/1.1-300/1.13-[$500-
$300(PVA,10%,15 years)]/1.17
50%
 
Note that the present value of the cash flows from development after the third phase get 
discounted back an additional seven years (to reflect the time it takes to get through three 
phases). In the last step in the process, we compute the expected values by working 
backwards through the tree and estimating the optimal action in each decision phase in 
figure 6.4:
16 
Figure 6.4: Drug Decision Tree Folded Back 
Test
Abandon
Succeed
70%
Fail
30%
-$50
-$140.91
Types 1 & 2
Type 2
Type 1
Fail
10%
10%
30%
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Develop
Abandon
Succeed
Succeed
Succeed
Fail
Fail
Fail
75%
25%
80%
20%
80%
20% -$328.74
-$328.74
-$328.74
$585.62
-$328.74
-$97.43
-$366.30
-$366.30
$887.05
50%
$50.36
$93.37
$573.71
-$143.69
$402.75
 
The expected value of the drug today, given the uncertainty over its success, is $50.36 
million. This value reflects all of the possibilities that can unfold over time and shows the 
choices at each decision branch that are sub-optimal and thus should be rejected.  
For example, once the drug passes phase 3, developing the drug beats abandoning it in all 
three cases – as a treatment for type 1, type 2 or both types. The decision tree also 
provides a range of outcomes, with the worst case outcome being failure in phase 3 of the 
drug as a treatment for both phase 1 and 2 diabetes (-$366.30 million in today’s dollars) 
to the best case outcome of approval and development of the drug as treatment for both 
types of diabetes ($887.05 million in today’s dollars). 
 There may one element in the last set of branches that may seem puzzling. Note 
that the present value of developing the drug as a treatment for just type 2 diabetes is 
negative (-$97.43 million). Why would the company still develop the drug? Because the 
alternative of abandoning the drug at the late stage in the process has an even more
17 
negative net present value (-$328.74 million). Another way to see this is to look at the 
marginal effect of developing the drug just for type 2 diabetes. Once the firm has 
expended the resources to take the firm through all three phases of testing, the testing cost 
becomes a sunk cost and is not a factor in the decision.8 The marginal cash flows from 
developing the drug after phase 3 yield a positive net present value of $451 million (in 
year 7 cash flows): 
Present value of developing drug to treat Type 2 diabetes in year 7 = -500 + 
125(PV of annuity, 10%, 15 years) = $451 million 
At each stage in the decision tree, you make your judgments based upon the marginal 
cash flows at that juncture.  Rolling back the decision tree allows you to see what the 
value of the drug is at each phase in the process. 
Use in Decision Making 
 There are several benefits that accrue from using decision trees and it is surprising 
that they are not used more often in analysis.  
1. Dynamic response to Risk: By linking actions and choices to outcomes of uncertain 
events, decision trees encourage firms to consider how they should act under different 
circumstances. As a consequence, firms will be prepared for whatever outcome may 
arise rather than be surprised. In the example in the last section, for instance, the firm 
will be ready with a plan of action, no matter what the outcome of phase 3 happens to 
be. 
2. Value of Information: Decision trees provide a useful perspective on the value of 
information in decision making. While it is not as obvious in the drug development 
example, it can be seen clearly when a firm considers whether to test market a 
product before commercially developing it. By test marketing a product, you acquire 
more information on the chances of eventual success. You can measure the expected 
value of this improved information in a decision tree and compare it to the test 
marketing cost.  
                                                
8 It would be more accurate to consider only the costs of the first two phases as sunk, since by the end of 
phase 2, the firm knows that the drug is effective only against type 2 diabetes. Even if we consider only the 
costs of the first 2 phases as sunk, it still makes sense on an expected value basis to continue to phase 3.
18 
3. Risk Management: Since decision trees provide a picture of how cash flows unfold 
over time, they are useful in deciding what risks should be protected against and the 
benefits of doing so. Consider a decision tree on the value of an asset, where the 
worst-case scenario unfolds if the dollar is weak against the Euro. Since we can hedge 
against this risk, the cost of hedging the risk can be compared to the loss in cash flows 
in the worst-case scenario. 
In summary, decision trees provide a flexible and powerful approach for dealing with risk 
that occurs in phases, with decisions in each phase depending upon outcomes in the 
previous one. In addition to providing us with measures of risk exposure, they also force 
us to think through how we will react to both adverse and positive outcomes that may 
occur at each phase. 
Issues 
 There are some types of risk that decision trees are capable of handling and others 
that they are not. In particular, decision trees are best suited for risk that is sequential; the 
FDA process where approval occurs in phases is a good example. Risks that affect an 
asset concurrently cannot be easily modeled in a decision tree.9 Looking back at the 
Boeing Super Jumbo jet example in the scenario analysis, for instance, the key risks that 
Boeing faces relate to Airbus developing its own version of a super-sized jet and growth 
in Asia. If we had wanted to use a decision tree to model this investment, we would have 
had to make the assumption that one of these risks leads the other. For instance, we could 
assume that Airbus will base its decision on whether to develop a large plane on growth 
in Asia; if growth is high, they are more likely to do it. If, however, this assumption in 
unreasonable and the Airbus decision will be made while Boeing faces growth risk in 
Asia, a decision tree may not be feasible. 
 As with scenario analysis, decision trees generally look at risk in terms of discrete 
outcomes. Again, this is not a problem with the FDA approval process where there are 
only two outcomes – success or failure. There is a much wider range of outcomes with 
most other risks and we have to create discrete categories for the outcomes to stay within
19 
he decision tree framework. For instance, when looking at a market test, we may 
conclude that selling more than 100,000 units in a test market qualifies as a success, 
between 60,000 ad 100,000 units as an average outcome and below 60,000 as a failure.  
 Assuming risk is sequential and can be categorized into discrete boxes, we are 
faced with estimation questions to which there may be no easy answers. In particular, we 
have to estimate the cash flow under each outcome and the associated probability. With 
the drug development example, we had to estimate the cost and the probability of success 
of each phase. The advantage that we have when it comes to these estimates is that we 
can draw on empirical data on how frequently drugs that enter each phase make it to the 
next one and historical costs associated with drug testing.  To the extent that there may be 
wide differences across different phase 1 drugs in terms of success – some may be longer 
shots than others – there can still be errors that creep into decision trees.  
 The expected value of a decision tree is heavily dependent upon the assumption 
that we will stay disciplined at the decision points in the tree. In other words, if the 
optimal decision is to abandon if a test market fails and the expected value is computed, 
based on this assumption, the integrity of the process and the expected value will quickly 
fall apart, if managers decide to overlook the market testing failure and go with a full 
launch of the product anyway.  
Risk Adjusted Value and Decision Trees 
 Are decision trees an alternative or an addendum to discounted cash flow 
valuation? The question is an interesting one because there are some analysts who believe 
that decision trees, by factoring in the possibility of good and bad outcomes, are already 
risk adjusted. In fact, they go on to make the claim that the right discount rate to use 
estimating present value in decision trees is the riskfree rate; using a risk adjusted 
discount rate, they argue, would be double counting the risk. Barring a few exceptional 
circumstances, they are incorrect in their reasoning. 
a. Expected values are not risk adjusted: Consider decision trees, where we estimate 
expected cash flows by looking at the possible outcomes and their probabilities of 
                                                                                                                                            
9 If we choose to model such risks in a decision tree, they have to be independent of each other. In other
20 
occurrence. The probability-weighted expected value that we obtain is not risk adjusted. 
The only rationale that can be offered for using a risk free rate is that the risk embedded 
in the uncertain outcomes is asset-specific and will be diversified away, in which case the 
risk adjusted discount rate would be the riskfree rate.  In the FDA drug development 
example, for instance, this may be offered as the rationale for why we would use the risk 
free rate to discount cash flows for the first seven years, when the only the risk we face is 
drug approval risk. After year 7, though, the risk is likely to contain a market element and 
the risk-adjusted rate will be higher than the risk free rate. 
b. Double Counting of Risk: We do have to be careful about making sure that we don’t 
double count for risk in decision trees by using risk-adjusted discount rates that are set 
high to reflect the possibility of failure at the earlier phases. One common example of this 
phenomenon is in venture capital valuation. A conventional approach that venture 
capitalists have used to value young start-up companies is to estimate an exit value, based 
on projected earnings and a multiple of that earnings in the future, and to then discount 
the exit value at a target rate. Using this approach, for instance, the value today for a firm 
that is losing money currently but is expected to make profits of $ 10 million in 5 years 
(when the earnings multiple at which it will be taken public is estimated to be 40) can be 
computed as follows (if the target rate is 35%): 
Value of the firm in 5 years = Earnings in year 5 * PE = 10 * 40 = $ 400 million 
Value of firm today = $ 400/ 1.355 = $89.20 million 
Note, however, that the target rate is set at a high level (35%) because of the probability 
that this young firm will not make it to a public offering. In fact, we could frame this as a 
simple decision tree in figure 6.5: 
                                                                                                                                            
words, the sequencing should not matter.
21 
Figure 6.5: Decision Tree for start-up firm 
Succeed
Fail
Firm goes public
$ 400 million
Firm fails
Worth nothing
p
1-p
E(Value today) = p 400/(1+r) + (1-p) 0
 
Assume that r is the correct discount rate, based upon the non-diversifiable risk that the 
venture capitalist faces on this venture. Going back to the numeric example, assume that 
this discount rate would have been 15% for this venture. We can solve for the implied 
probability of failure, embedded in the venture capitalist’s estimate of value of $89.20 
million: 
Estimated Value = $89.20 = 
! 
$400
1.155(p)  
Solving for p, we estimate the probability of success at 44.85%. With this estimate of 
probability in the decision tree, we would have arrived at the same value as the venture 
capitalist, assuming that we use the right discount rate. Using the target rate of 35% as the 
discount rate in a decision tree would lead to a drastically lower value, because risk 
would have been counted twice. Using the same reasoning, we can see why using a high 
discount rate in assessing the value of a bio-technology drug in a decision tree will under 
value the drug, especially if the discount rate already reflects the probability that the drug 
will not make it to commercial production. If the risk of the approval process is specific 
to that drug. and thus diversifiable, this would suggest that discount rates should be 
reasonable in decision tree analysis, even for drugs with very high likelihoods of not 
making it through the approval process. 
c. The Right Discount Rate: If the right discount rate to use in a decision tree should 
reflect the non-diversifiable risk looking forward, it is not only possible but likely that 
discount rates we use will be different at different points in the tree. For instance,
22 
extraordinary success at the test market stage may yield more predictable cash flows than 
an average test market outcome; this would lead us to use a lower discount rate to value 
the former and a higher discount rate to value the latter. In the drug development 
example, it is possible that the expected cash flows, if the drug works for both types of 
diabetes, will be more stable than if is a treatment for only one type. It would follow that 
a discount rate of 8% may be the right one for the first set of cash flows, whereas a 12% 
discount rate may be more appropriate for the second.  
Reviewing the discussion, decision trees are not alternatives to risk adjusted 
valuation. Instead, they can be viewed as a different way of adjusting for discrete risk that 
may be difficult to bring into expected cash flows or into risk adjusted discount rates. 
Simulations 
 If scenario analysis and decision trees are techniques that help us to assess the 
effects of discrete risk, simulations provide a way of examining the consequences of 
continuous risk. To the extent that most risks that we face in the real world can generate 
hundreds of possible outcomes, a simulation will give us a fuller picture of the risk in an 
asset or investment. 
Steps in simulation 
Unlike scenario analysis, where we look at the values under discrete scenarios, 
simulations allow for more flexibility in how we deal with uncertainty. In its classic form, 
distributions of values are estimated for each parameter in the analysis (growth, market 
share, operating margin, beta etc.). In each simulation, we draw one outcome from each 
distribution to generate a unique set of cashflows and value. Across a large number of 
simulations, we can derive a distribution for the value of investment or an asset that will 
reflect the underlying uncertainty we face in estimating the inputs to the valuation. The 
steps associated with running a simulation are as follows: 
1. Determine “probabilistic” variables: In any analysis, there are potentially dozens of 
inputs, some of which are predictable and some of which are not. Unlike scenario 
analysis and decision trees, where the number of variables that are changed and the 
potential outcomes have to be few in number, there is no constraint on how many
23 
variables can be allowed to vary in a simulation. At least in theory, we can define 
probability distributions for each and every input in a valuation. The reality, though, is 
that this will be time consuming and may not provide much of a payoff, especially for 
inputs that have only marginal impact on value. Consequently, it makes sense to focus 
attention on a few variables that have a significant impact on value. 
2. Define probability distributions for these variables: This is a key and the most difficult 
step in the analysis. Generically, there are three ways in which we can go about defining 
probability distributions: 
a. Historical data: For variables that have a long history and reliable data over 
that history, it is possible to use the historical data to develop distributions. 
Assume, for instance, that you are trying to develop a distribution of expected 
changes in the long-term Treasury bond rate (to use as an input in investment 
analysis). You could use the histogram in figure 6.6, based upon the annual 
changes in Treasury bond rates every year from 1928 to 2005, as the distribution 
for future changes.
24 
Implicit in this approach is the assumption that there have been no structural shifts 
in the market that will render the historical data unreliable.  
b. Cross sectional data: In some cases, you may be able to substitute data on 
differences in a specific variable across existing investments that are similar to the 
investment being analyzed. Consider two examples. Assume that you are valuing 
a software firm and are concerned about the uncertainty in operating margins. 
Figure 6.7 provides a distribution of pre-tax operating margins across software 
companies in 2006: 
 
If we use this distribution, we are in effect assuming that the cross sectional 
variation in the margin is a good indicator of the uncertainty we face in estimating 
it for the software firm in question. In a second example, assume that you work 
for Target, the retailer, and that you are trying to estimate the sales per square foot 
for a new store investment. Target could use the distribution on this variable 
across existing stores as the basis for its simulation of sales at the new store. 
c. Statistical Distribution and parameters: For most variables that you are trying 
to forecast, the historical and cross sectional data will be insufficient or unreliable.
25 
In these cases, you have to pick a statistical distribution that best captures the 
variability in the input and estimate the parameters for that distribution. Thus, you 
may conclude that operating margins will be distributed uniformly, with a 
minimum of 4% and a maximum of 8% and that revenue growth is normally 
distributed with an expected value of 8% and a standard deviation of 6%. Many 
simulation packages available for personal computers now provide a rich array of 
distributions to choose from, but picking the right distribution and the parameters 
for the distribution remains difficult for two reasons. The first is that few inputs 
that we see in practice meet the stringent requirements that statistical distributions 
demand; revenue growth, for instance, cannot be normally distributed because the 
lowest value it can take on is -100%. Consequently, we have to settle for 
statistical distributions that are close enough to the real distribution that the 
resulting errors will not wreak havoc on our conclusion. The second is that the 
parameters still need to be estimated, once the distribution is picked. For this, we 
can draw on historical or cross sectional data; for the revenue growth input, we 
can look at revenue growth in prior years or revenue growth rate differences 
across peer group companies. The caveats about structural shifts that make 
historical data unreliable and peer group companies not being comparable 
continue to apply.  
The probability distributions for discrete for some inputs and continuous for others, be 
based upon historical data for some and statistical distributions for others. Appendix 1 
provides an overview of the statistical distributions that are most commonly used in 
simulations and their characteristics. 
3. Check for correlation across variables: While it is tempting to jump to running 
simulations right after the distributions have been specified, it is important that we check 
for correlations across variables. Assume, for instance, that you are developing 
probability distributions for both interest rates and inflation. While both inputs may be 
critical in determining value, they are likely to be correlated with each other; high 
inflation is usually accompanied by high interest rates. When there is strong correlation, 
positive or negative, across inputs, you have two choices. One is to pick only one of the 
two inputs to vary; it makes sense to focus on the input that has the bigger impact on
26 
value. The other is to build the correlation explicitly into the simulation; this does require 
more sophisticated simulation packages and adds more detail to the estimation process. 
As with the distribution, the correlations can be estimated by looking at the past. 
4. Run the simulation: For the first simulation, you draw one outcome from each 
distribution and compute the value based upon those outcomes. This process can be 
repeated as many times as desired, though the marginal contribution of each simulation 
drops off as the number of simulations increases. The number of simulations you run will 
be determined by the following: 
a. Number of probabilistic inputs: The larger the number of inputs that have 
probability distributions attached to them, the greater will be the required number 
of simulations. 
b. Characteristics of probability distributions: The greater the diversity of 
distributions in an analysis, the larger will be the number of required simulations. 
Thus, the number of required simulations will be smaller in a simulation where all 
of the inputs have normal distributions than in one where some have normal 
distributions, some are based upon historical data distributions and some are 
discrete. 
c.  Range of outcomes: The greater the potential range of outcomes on each input, 
the greater will be the number of simulations.  
Most simulation packages allow users to run thousands of simulations, with little 
or no cost attached to increasing that number. Given that reality, it is better to err 
on the side of too many simulations rather than too few.  
There have generally been two impediments to good simulations. The first is 
informational: estimating distributions of values for each input into a valuation is difficult 
to do. In other words, it is far easier to estimate an expected growth rate of 8% in 
revenues for the next 5 years than it is to specify the distribution of expected growth rates 
– the type of distribution, parameters of that distribution – for revenues. The second is 
computational; until the advent of personal computers, simulations tended to be too time 
and resource intensive for the typical analysis. Both these constraints have eased in recent 
years and simulations have become more feasible.
27 
An Example of a Simulation 
 Running a simulation is simplest for firms that consider the same kind of projects 
repeatedly. These firms can use their experience from similar projects that are already in 
operation to estimate expected values for new projects. The Home Depot, for instance, 
analyzes dozens of new home improvement stores every year. It also has hundreds of 
stores in operation10, at different stages in their life cycles; some of these stores have been 
in operation for more than 10 years and others have been around only for a couple of 
years. Thus, when forecasting revenues for a new store, the Home Depot can draw on this 
rich database to make its estimates more precise. The firm has a reasonable idea of how 
long it takes a new store to become established and how store revenues change as the 
store ages and new stores open close by. 
 There are other cases where experience can prove useful for estimating revenues 
and expenses on a new investment. An oil company, in assessing whether to put up an oil 
rig, comes into the decision with a clear sense of what the costs are of putting up a rig, 
and how long it will take for the rig to be productive. Similarly, a pharmaceutical firm, 
when introducing a new drug, can bring to its analysis its experience with other drugs in 
the past, how quickly such drugs are accepted and prescribed by doctors, and how 
responsive revenues are to pricing policy. We are not suggesting that the experience these 
firms have had in analyzing similar projects in the past removes uncertainty about the 
project from the analysis. The Home Depot is still exposed to considerable risk on each 
new store that it analyzes today, but the experience does make the estimation process 
easier and the estimation error smaller than it would be for a firm that is assessing a 
unique project. 
 Assume that the Home Depot is analyzing a new home improvement store that 
will follow its traditional format11. There are several estimates the Home Depot needs to 
make when analyzing a new store. Perhaps the most important is the likely revenues at 
the store. Given that the Home Depot’s store sizes are similar across locations, the firm 
                                                
10 At the end of 2005, the Home Depot had 743 Home Depot stores in operation, 707 of which were in the 
United States. 
11 A typical Home Depot store has store space of about 100,000 square feet and carries a wide range of 
home improvement products, from hardware to flooring.
28 
can get an idea of the expected revenues by looking at revenues at their existing stores. 
Figure 6.8 summarizes the distribution12 of annual revenues at existing stores in 2005: 
 
This distribution not only yields an expected revenue per store of about $ 44 million, but 
also provides a measure of the uncertainty associated with the estimate, in the form of a 
standard deviation in revenues per store.  
 The second key input is the operating margin that the Home Depot expects to 
generate at this store. While the margins are fairly similar across all of its existing stores, 
there are significant differences in margins across different building supply retailers, 
reflecting their competitive strengths or weaknesses. Figure 6.9 summarizes differences 
in pre-tax operating margins across building supply retailers: 
                                                
12 This distribution is a hypothetical one, since the Home Depot does not provide this information to 
outsiders. It does have the information internally.
29 
 
Note that this distribution, unlike the revenue distribution, does not have a noticeable 
peak. In fact, with one outlier in either direction, it is distributed evenly between 6% and 
12%. 
 Finally, the store’s future revenues will be tied to an estimate of expected growth, 
which we will assume will be strongly influenced by overall economic growth in the 
United States. To get a measure of this growth, we looked at the distribution of real GDP 
growth from 1925 to 2005 in figure 6.10:
30 
 
 To run a simulation of the Home Depot’s store’s cash flows and value, we will make the 
following assumptions:  
• Base revenues: We will base our estimate of the base year’s revenues on figure 6.8. 
For computational ease, we will assume that revenues will be normally distributed 
with an expected value of $ 44 million and a standard deviation of $ 10 million. 
• Pre-tax operating margin: Based upon figure 6.9, he pre-tax operating margin is 
assumed to be uniformly distributed with a minimum value of 6% and a maximum 
value of 12%, with an expected value of 9%. Non-operating expenses are anticipated 
to be $ 1.5 million a year. 
• Revenue growth: We used a slightly modified version of the actual distribution of 
historical real GDP changes as the distribution of future changes in real GDP.13 The 
average real GDP growth over the period was 3%, but there is substantial variation 
with the worst year delivering a drop in real GDP of more than 8% and the best an 
increase of more than 8%. The expected annual growth rate in revenues is the sum of
31 
the expected inflation rate and the growth rate in real GDP. We will assume that the 
expected inflation rate is 2%. 
• The store is expected to generate cash flows for 10 years and there is no expected 
salvage value from the store closure. 
• The cost of capital for the Home Depot is 10% and the tax rate is 40%.  
We can compute the value of this store to the Home Depot, based entirely upon the 
expected values of each variable: 
Expected Base-year Revenue = $ 44 million 
Expected Base-year After-tax Cash flow = (Revenue * Pretax Margin – Nonoperating 
expenses) (1- tax rate ) = (44*.09 – 1.5) (1- .4) = $1.476 million 
Expected growth rate = GDP growth rate + Expected inflation = 3% + 2% = 5% 
Value14 of store = 
! 
= CF (1+g)
(1-(1+g)n
(1+r)n)
(r"g)  =  1.476 (1.05) 
(1-1.0510
1.1010)
(.10".05)=$11.53 million  
The risk adjusted value for this store is $11.53 million. 
 We then did a simulation with 10,000 runs, based upon the probability 
distributions for each of the inputs.15 The resulting values are graphed in figure 6.11: 
                                                                                                                                            
13 In the modified version, we smoothed out the distribution to fill in the missing intervals and moved the 
peak of the distribution slightly to the left (to 3-4% from 4-5%) reflecting the larger size of the economy 
today. 
14 The equation presented here is the equation for the present value of a growing annuity.  
15 We used Crystal Ball as the computational program. Crystal Ball is a simulation program produced by 
Decisioneering Inc.)
32 
Figure 6.11: Distribution of Estimated Values for HD Store from Simulation 
 
The key statistics on the values obtained across the 10,000 runs are summarized below: 
• The average value across the simulations was  $11.67 million, a trifle higher the 
risk adjusted value of $11.53 million; the median value was $ 10.90 million. 
• There was substantial variation in values, with the lowest value across all runs of - 
$5.05 million and the highest value of $39.42 million; the standard deviation in 
values was $5.96 million. 
Use in decision making 
 A well-done simulation provides us with more than just an expected value for an 
asset or investment.  
a. Better input estimation: In an ideal simulation, analysts will examine both the 
historical and cross sectional data on each input variable before making a 
judgment on what distribution to use and the parameters of the distribution. In the 
process, they may be able to avoid the sloppiness that is associated with the use of 
“single best” estimates; many discounted cash flow valuations are based upon
33 
expected
