Source: http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/pdfiles/papers/hedging.pdf

1 
RISK MANAGEMENT: PROFILING AND HEDGING 
 To manage risk, you first have to understand the risks that you are exposed to. 
This process of developing a risk profile thus requires an examination of both the 
immediate risks from competition and product market changes as well as the more 
indirect effects of macro economic forces. We will begin this chapter by looking at ways 
in which we can develop a complete risk profile for a firm, where we outline all of the 
risks that a firm is exposed to and estimate the magnitude of the exposure. 
 In the second part of the chapter, we turn to a key question of what we should do 
about these risks. In general, we have three choices. We can do nothing and let the risk 
pass through to investors in the business – stockholders in a publicly traded firm and the 
owners of private businesses. We can try to protect ourselves against the risk using a 
variety of approaches – using options and futures to hedge against specific risks, 
modifying the way we fund assets to reduce risk exposure or buying insurance. Finally, 
we can intentionally increase our exposure to some of the risks because we feel that we 
have significant advantages over the competition. In this chapter, we will consider the 
first two choices and hold off on the third choice until the next chapter. 
Risk Profile 
  Every business faces risks and the first step in managing risk is making an 
inventory of the risks that you face and getting a measure of the exposure to each risk. In 
this section, we examine the process of developing a risk profile for a business and 
consider some of the potential pitfalls.  There are four steps involved in this process. In 
the first step, we list all risks that a firm is exposed to, from all sources and without 
consideration to the type of risk. We categorize these risks into broad groups in the 
second step and analyze the exposure to each risk in the third step. In the fourth step, we 
examine the alternatives available to manage each type of risk and the expertise that the 
firm brings to dealing with the risk.  
Step 1: A listing of risks 
 Assume that you run a small company in the United States, packaging and selling 
premium coffee beans for sale to customers. You may buy your coffee beans in
2 
Columbia, sort and package them in the California and ship them to your customers all 
over the world. In the process, you are approached to a multitude of risks. There is the 
risk of political turmoil in Columbia, compounded by the volatility in the dollar-peso 
exchange rate. Your packaging plant in California may sit on top of an earthquake fault  
line and be staffed with unionized employees, exposing you to the potential for both 
natural disasters and labor troubles. Your competition comes from other small businesses 
offering their own gourmet coffee beans and from larger companies like Starbucks that 
may be able to get better deals because of higher volume. On top of all of this, you have 
to worry about the overall demand for coffee ebbing and flowing, as customers choose 
between a wider array of drinks and worry about the health concerns of too much 
caffeine consumption.  
 Not surprisingly, the risks you face become more numerous and complicated as 
you expand your business to include new products and markets, and listing them all can 
be exhausting. At the same time, though, you have to be aware of the risks you face 
before you can begin analyzing them and deciding what to do about them.   
Step 2: Categorize the risks 
 A listing of all risks that a firm faces can be overwhelming. One step towards 
making them manageable is to sort risk into broad categories. In addition to organizing 
risks into groups, it is a key step towards determining what to do about these risks. In 
general, risk can be categorized based on the following criteria: 
a. Market versus Firm-specific risk: In keeping with our earlier characterization of 
risk in risk and return models, we can categorize risk into risk that affects one or a 
few companies (firm-specific risk) and risk that affects many or all companies 
(market risk). The former can be diversified away in a portfolio but the latter will 
persist even in diversified portfolios; in conventional risk and return models, the 
former have no effect on expected returns (and discount rates) whereas the latter 
do. 
b. Operating versus Financial Risk: Risk can also be categorized as coming from a 
firm’s financial choices (its mix of debt and equity and the types of financing that 
it uses) or from its operations. An increase in interest rates or risk premiums
3 
would be an example of the former whereas an increase in the price of raw 
materials used in production would be an example of the latter. 
c. Continuous Risks versus Event Risk:  Some risks are dormant for long periods 
and manifest themselves as unpleasant events that have economic consequences 
whereas other risks create continuous exposure. Consider again the coffee bean 
company’s risk exposure in Columbia. A political revolution or nationalization of 
coffee estates in Columbia would be an example of event risk whereas the 
changes in exchange rates would be an illustration of continuous risk. 
d. Catastrophic risk versus Smaller risks: Some risks are small and have a relatively 
small effect on a firm’s earnings and value, whereas others have a much larger 
impact, with the definition of small and large varying from firm to firm. Political 
turmoil in its Indian software operations will have a small impact on Microsoft, 
with is large market cap and cash reserves allowing it to find alternative sites, but 
will have a large impact on a small software company with the same exposure. 
Some risks may not be easily categorized and the same risk can switch categories over 
time, but it still pays to do the categorization. 
Step 3: Measure exposure to each risk 
 A logical follow up to categorizing risk is to measure exposure to risk. To make 
this measurement, though, we have to first decide what it is that risk affects. At its 
simplest level, we could measure the effect of risk on the earnings of a company. At its 
broadest level, we can capture the risk exposure by examining how the value of a firm 
changes as a consequence.  
Earnings versus Value Risk Exposure 
 It is easier to measure earnings risk exposure than value risk exposure. There are 
numerous accounting rules governing how companies should record and report exchange 
rate and interest rate movements. Consider, for instance, how we deal with exchange rate 
movements. From an accounting standpoint, the risk of changing exchange rates is 
captured in what is called translation exposure, which is the effect of these changes on 
the current income statement and the balance sheet. In making translations of foreign
4 
operations from the foreign to the domestic currency, there are two issues we need to 
address. The first is whether financial statement items in a foreign currency should be 
translated at the current exchange rate or at the rate that prevailed at the time of the 
transaction. The second is whether the profit or loss created when the exchange rate 
adjustment is made should be treated as a profit or loss in the current period or deferred 
until a future period.   
Accounting standards in the United States apply different rules for translation 
depending upon whether the foreign entity is a self-contained unit or a direct extension of 
the parent company. For the first group, FASB 52 requires that an entity’s assets and 
liabilities be converted into the parent’s currency at the prevailing exchange rate. The 
increase or decrease in equity that occurs as a consequence of this translation is captured 
as an unrealized foreign exchange gain or loss and will not affect the income statement 
until the underlying assets and liabilities are sold or liquidated. For the second group, 
only the monetary assets and liabilities1 have to be converted, based upon the prevailing 
exchange rate, and the net income is adjusted for unrealized translations gains or losses. 
 Translation exposure matters from the narrow standpoint of reported earnings and 
balance sheet values. The more important question, however, is whether investors view 
these translation changes as important in determining firm value, or whether they view 
them as risk that will average out across companies and across time, and the answers to 
this question are mixed. In fact, several studies suggest that earnings changes caused by 
exchange rate changes do not affect the stock prices of firms.  
 While translation exposure is focused on the effects of exchange rate changes on 
financial statements, economic exposure attempts to look more deeply at the effects of 
such changes on firm value. These changes, in turn, can be broken down into two types. 
Transactions exposure looks at the effects of exchange rate changes on transactions and 
projects that have already been entered into and denominated in a foreign currency. 
Operating exposure measures the effects of exchange rate changes on expected future 
cash flows and discount rates, and, thus, on total value.  
                                                
1 Monetary assets include cash, marketable securities and some short terms assets such as inventory. They 
do not include real assets.
5 
 In his book on international finance, Shapiro presents a time pattern for economic 
exposure, in which he notes that firms are exposed to exchange rate changes at every 
stage in the process from developing new products for sale abroad, to entering into 
contracts to sell these products to waiting for payment on these products.2 To illustrate, a 
weakening of the U.S. dollar will increase the competition among firms that depend upon 
export markets, such as Boeing, and increase their expected growth rates and value, while 
hurting those firms that need imports as inputs to their production process. 
Measuring Risk Exposure 
 We can measure risk exposure in subjective terms by assessing whether the 
impact of a given risk will be large or small (but not specifying how large or small) or in 
quantitative terms where we attempt to provide a numerical measure of the possible 
effect. In this section, we will consider both approaches.  
Qualitative approaches 
 When risk assessment is done for strategic analysis, the impact is usually 
measured in qualitative terms. Thus, a firm will be found to be vulnerable to country risk 
or exchange rate movements, but the potential impact will be categorized on a subjective 
scale. Some of these scales are simple and have only two or three levels (high, average 
and low impact) whereas others allow for more gradations (risk can be scaled on a 1-10 
scale).  
 No matter how these scales are structured, we will be called upon to make 
judgments about where individual risks fall on this scale. If the risk being assessed is one 
that the firm is exposed to on a regular basis, say currency movements, we can look at its 
impact on earnings or market value on a historical basis. If the risk being assessed is a 
low-probability event on which there is little history as is the case for an airline exposed 
to the risk of terrorism, the assessment has to be based upon the potential impact of such 
an incident. 
 While qualitative scales are useful, the subjective judgments that go into them can 
create problems since two analysts looking at the same risk can make very different 
                                                
2 Shapiro, A., 1996, Multinational Financial Management (Seventh Edition), John Wiley, New York.
6 
assessments of their potential impact. In addition, the fact that the risk assessment is 
made by individuals, based upon their judgments, exposes it to all of the quirks in risk 
assessment that we noted earlier in the book. For instance, individuals tend to weight 
recent history too much in making assessments, leading to an over estimation of exposure 
from recently manifested risks. Thus, companies over estimate the likelihood and impact 
of terrorist attacks right after well publicized attacks elsewhere. 
Quantitative approaches 
 If risk manifests itself over time as changes in earnings and value, you can assess 
a firm’s exposure to risk by looking at its past history. In particular, changes in a firm’s 
earnings and value can be correlated with potential risk sources to see both whether they 
are affected by the risks and by how much. Alternatively, you can arrive at estimates of 
risk exposure by looking at firms in the sector in which you operate and their sensitivity 
to changes in risk measures. 
1. Firm specific risk measures 
Risk matters to firms because it affects their profitability and consequently their 
value. Thus, the simplest way of measuring risk exposure is to look at the past and 
examine how earnings and firm value have moved over time as a function of pre-
specified risk. If we contend, for instance, that a firm is cyclical and is exposed to the risk 
of economic downturns, we should be able to back this contention up with evidence that 
it has been adversely impacted by past recessions.  
Consider a simple example where we estimate how much risk Walt Disney Inc. is 
exposed to from to changes in a number of macro-economic variables, using two 
measures: Disney’s firm value (the market value of debt and equity) and its operating 
income. We begin by collecting past data on firm value, operating income and the 
macroeconomic variables against which we want to measure its sensitivity. In the case of 
the Disney, we look at four macro-economic variables – the level of long term rates 
measured by the 10 year treasury bond rate, the growth in the economy measured by 
changes in real GDP, the inflation rate captured by the consumer price index and the 
strength of the dollar against other currencies (estimated using the trade-weighted dollar
7 
value). In table 10.1, we report the earnings and value for Disney at the end of each year 
from 1988 to 2003 with the levels of each macro-economic variable. 
Table 10.1: Disney’s Firm Value and Macroeconomic Variables 
Period 
Operating 
Income 
Firm 
value 
T.Bond 
Rate 
Change 
in rate 
GDP 
(Deflated) 
% Chg in 
GDP CPI 
Change in 
CPI 
Weighted 
Dollar 
% 
Change in 
$ 
2003 $2,713 $68,239 4.29% 0.40% 10493 3.60% 2.04% 0.01% 88.82 -14.51% 
2002 $2,384 $53,708 3.87% -0.82% 10128 2.98% 2.03% -0.10% 103.9 -3.47% 
2001 $2,832 $45,030 4.73% -1.20% 9835 -0.02% 2.13% -1.27% 107.64 1.85% 
2000 $2,525 $47,717 6.00% 0.30% 9837 3.53% 3.44% 0.86% 105.68 11.51% 
1999 $3,580 $88,558 5.68% -0.21% 9502 4.43% 2.56% 1.05% 94.77 -0.59% 
1998 $3,843 $65,487 5.90% -0.19% 9099 3.70% 1.49% -0.65% 95.33 0.95% 
1997 $3,945 $64,236 6.10% -0.56% 8774 4.79% 2.15% -0.82% 94.43 7.54% 
1996 $3,024 $65,489 6.70% 0.49% 8373 3.97% 2.99% 0.18% 87.81 4.36% 
1995 $2,262 $54,972 6.18% -1.32% 8053 2.46% 2.81% 0.19% 84.14 -1.07% 
1994 $1,804 $33,071 7.60% 2.11% 7860 4.30% 2.61% -0.14% 85.05 -5.38% 
1993 $1,560 $22,694 5.38% -0.91% 7536 2.25% 2.75% -0.44% 89.89 4.26% 
1992 $1,287 $25,048 6.35% -1.01% 7370 3.50% 3.20% 0.27% 86.22 -2.31% 
1991 $1,004 $17,122 7.44% -1.24% 7121 -0.14% 2.92% -3.17% 88.26 4.55% 
1990 $1,287 $14,963 8.79% 0.47% 7131 1.68% 6.29% 1.72% 84.42 -11.23% 
1989 $1,109 $16,015 8.28% -0.60% 7013 3.76% 4.49% 0.23% 95.10 4.17% 
1988 $789 $9,195 8.93% -0.60% 6759 4.10% 4.25% -0.36% 91.29 -5.34% 
1987 $707 $8,371 9.59% 2.02% 6493 3.19% 4.63% 3.11% 96.44 -8.59% 
1986 $281 $5,631 7.42% -2.58% 6292 3.11% 1.47% -1.70% 105.50 -15.30% 
1985 $206 $3,655 10.27% -1.11% 6102 3.39% 3.23% -0.64% 124.56 -10.36% 
1984 $143 $2,024 11.51% -0.26% 5902 4.18% 3.90% -0.05% 138.96 8.01% 
1983 $134 $1,817 11.80% 1.20% 5665 6.72% 3.95% -0.05% 128.65 4.47% 
1982 $141 $2,108 10.47% -3.08% 5308 -1.61% 4% -4.50% 123.14 6.48% 
Firm Value = Market Value of Equity + Book Value of Debt 
Once these data have been collected, we can then estimate the sensitivity of firm 
value to changes in the macroeconomic variables by regressing changes in firm value 
each year against changes in each of the individual variables. 
- Regressing changes in firm value against changes3 in interest rates over this period 
yields the following result (with t statistics in brackets): 
 Change in Firm Value = 0.2081 - 4.16 (Change in Interest Rates) 
 (2.91) (0.75)    
                                                
3 To ensure that the coefficient on this regression is a measure of duration, we compute the change in the 
interest rate as follows: (rt – rt-1)/(1+rt-1). Thus, if the long term bond rate goes from 8% to 9%, we compute 
the change to be (.09-.08)/1.08.
8 
Every 1% increase in long term rates translates into a loss in value of 4.16%, though 
the statistical significant is marginal. 
- Is Disney a cyclical firm? One way to answer this question is to measure the 
sensitivity of firm value to changes in economic growth. Regressing changes in firm 
value against changes in the real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over this period 
yields the following result: 
Change in Firm Value = 0.2165 + 0.26 (GDP Growth) 
 (1.56) (0.07) 
Disney’s value as a firm has not been affected significantly by economic growth. 
Again, to the extent that we trust the coefficients from this regression, this would 
suggest that Disney is not a cyclical firm.  
- To examine how Disney is affected by changes in inflation, we regressed changes in 
firm value against changes in the inflation rate over this period with the following 
result: 
Change in Firm Value = 0.2262  + 0.57 (Change in Inflation Rate) 
 (3.22) (0.13) 
Disney‘s firm value is unaffected by changes in inflation since the coefficient on 
inflation is not statistically different from zero.  
- We can answer the question of how sensitive Disney’s value is to changes in currency 
rates by looking at how the firm’s value changes as a function of changes in currency 
rates. Regressing changes in firm value against changes in the dollar over this period 
yields the following regression: 
 Change in Firm Value = 0.2060  -2.04 (Change in Dollar) 
       (3.40) (2.52) 
Statistically, this yields the strongest relationship. Disney’s firm value decreases 
as the dollar strengthens. 
In some cases, it is more reasonable to estimate the sensitivity of operating cash flows 
directly against changes in interest rates, inflation, and other variables. For Disney, we 
repeated the analysis using operating income as the dependent variable, rather than firm 
value. Since the procedure for the analysis is similar, we summarize the conclusions 
below:
9 
• Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in interest rates over this 
period yields the following result – 
 Change in Operating Income = 0.2189 + 6.59  (Change in Interest Rates) 
     (2.74)  (1.06)  
Disney’s operating income, unlike its firm value, has moved with interest rates. 
Again, this result has to be considered in light of the low t statistics on the 
coefficients. In general, regressing operating income against interest rate changes 
should yield a lower estimate of duration than the firm value measure, for two 
reasons. One is that income tends to be smoothed out relative to value, and the other 
is that the current operating income does not reflect the effects of changes in interest 
rates on discount rates and future growth. 
• Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in Real GDP over this 
period yields the following regression – 
 Change in Operating Income = 0.1725 + 0.66 (GDP Growth) 
     (1.10)  (0.15) 
Disney’s operating income, like its firm value, does not reflect any sensitivity to 
overall economic growth, confirming the conclusion that Disney is not a cyclical 
firm.   
• Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in the dollar over this 
period yields the following regression – 
 Change in Operating Income = 0.1768 -1.76 ( Change in Dollar) 
     (2.42)  (1.81) 
Disney’s operating income, like its firm value, is negatively affected by a stronger 
dollar.  
• Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in inflation over this 
period yields the following result – 
 Change in Operating Income = 0.2192  +9.27 ( Change in Inflation Rate) 
        (3.01)     (1.95) 
Unlike firm value which is unaffected by changes in inflation, Disney’s operating 
income moves strongly with inflation, rising as inflation increases. This would
10 
suggest that Disney has substantial pricing power, allowing it to pass through 
inflation increases into its prices and operating income.. 
The question of what to do when operating income and firm value have different results 
can be resolved fairly simply. The former provides a measure of earnings risk exposure 
and is thus narrow, whereas the latter captures the effect not only on current earnings but 
also on future earnings. It is possible, therefore, that a firm is exposed to earnings risk 
from a source but that the value risk is muted, as is the alternative where the risk to 
current earnings is low but the value risk is high. 
2. Sector-wide or Bottom up Risk Measures 
 There are two key limitations associated with the firm-specific risk measures 
described in the last section. First, they make sense only if the firm has been in its current 
business for a long time and expects to remain in it for the foreseeable future. In today’s 
environment, in which firms find their business mixes changing from period to period as 
they divest some businesses and acquire new ones, it is unwise to base too many 
conclusions on a historical analysis. Second, the small sample sizes used tend to yield 
regression estimates that are not statistically significant (as is the case with the coefficient 
estimates that we obtained for Disney from the interest rate regression). In such cases, we 
might want to look at the characteristics of the industry in which a firm plans to expand, 
rather than using past earnings or firm value as a basis for the analysis.  
To illustrate, we looked at the sector estimates4 for each of the sensitivity 
measures for the four businesses that Disney is in: movies, entertainment, theme park and 
consumer product businesses. Table 10.2 summarizes the findings: 
Table 10.2: Sector Sensitivity to Macroeconomic Risks 
 Coefficients on firm value regression  
 Interest Rates GDP Growth Inflation Currency Disney 
Weights 
Movies -3.70 0.56 1.41 -1.23 25.62% 
Theme Parks -6.47 0.22 -1.45 -3.21 20.09% 
                                                
4 These sector estimates were obtained by aggregating the firm values of all firms in a sector on a quarter-
by-quarter basis going back 12 years, and then regressing changes in this aggregate firm value against 
changes in the macro-economic variable each quarter.
11 
Broadcasting -4.50 0.70 -3.05 -1.58 49.25% 
Consumer 
Products -4.88 0.13 -5.51 -3.01 5.04% 
Disney -4.71 0.54 -1.71 -1.89 100% 
These bottom-up estimates suggest that firms in the business are negatively affected by 
higher interest rates (losing 4.71% in value for every 1% change in interest rates), and 
that firms in this sector are relatively unaffected by both the overall economy. Like 
Disney, firms in these businesses tend to be hurt by a stronger dollar, but,, unlike Disney, 
they do not seem have much pricing power (note the negative coefficient on inflation. 
The sector averages also have the advantage of more precision than the firm-specific 
estimates and can be relied on more. 
Step 4: Risk analysis 
 Once you have categorized and measured risk exposure, the last step in the 
process requires us to consider the choices we can make in dealing with each type of risk. 
While we will defer the full discussion of which risks should be hedged and which should 
not to the next section, we will prepare for that discussion by first outlining what our 
alternatives are when it comes to dealing with each type of risk and follow up be 
evaluating our expertise in dealing with that risk. 
 There are a whole range of choices when it comes to hedging risk. You can try to 
reduce or eliminate risk through your investment and financing choices, through 
insurance or by using derivatives. Not all choices are feasible or economical with all risks 
and it is worthwhile making an inventory of the available choices with each one. The risk 
associated with nationalization cannot be managed using derivatives and can be only 
partially insured against; the insurance may cover the cost of the fixed assets appropriated 
but not against the lost earnings from these assets. In contrast, exchange rate risk can be 
hedged in most markets with relative ease using market-traded derivatives contracts.  
 A tougher call involves making an assessment of how well you deal with different 
risk exposures. A hotel company may very well decide that its expertise is not in making 
real estate judgments but in running hotels efficiently. Consequently, it may decide to 
hedge against the former while being exposed to the latter.
12 
To Hedge or Not to Hedge? 
 Assume now that you have a list of all of the risks that you are exposed to, 
categorizes these risks and measured your exposure to each one. A fundamental and key 
question that you have to answer is which of these risks you want to hedge against and 
which you want to either pass through to your investors or exploit. To make thus 
judgment, you have to consider the potential costs and benefits of hedging; in effect, you 
hedge those risks where the benefits of hedging exceed the costs.   
The Costs of Hedging 
 Protecting yourself against risk is not costless. Sometimes, as is the case of 
buying insurance, the costs are explicit. At other times, as with forwards and futures 
contracts, the costs are implicit. In this section, we consider the magnitude of explicit and 
implicit costs of hedging against risk and how these costs may weigh on the final 
question of whether to hedge in the first place. 
Explicit Costs 
 Most businesses insure against at least some risk and the costs of risk protection 
are easy to compute. They take the form of the insurance premiums that you have to pay 
to get the protection. In general, the trade off is simple. The more complete the protection 
against risk, the greater the cost of the insurance.  In addition, the cost of insurance will 
increase with the likelihood and the expected impact of a specified risk. A business 
located in coastal Florida will have to pay more to insure against floods and hurricanes 
than one in the mid-west. 
 Businesses that hedge against risks using options can also measure their hedging 
costs explicitly. A farmer who buys put options to put a lower bound on the price that he 
will sell his produce at has to pay for the options. Similarly, an airline that buys call 
options on fuel to make sure that the price paid does not exceed the strike price will know 
the cost of buying this protection.  
Implicit Costs 
The hedging costs become less explicit as we look at other ways of hedging 
against risk. Firms that try to hedge against risk through their financing choices – using
13 
peso debt to fund peso assets, for instance – may be able to reduce their default risk (and 
consequently their cost of borrowing) but the savings are implicit. Firms that use futures 
and forward contracts also face implicit costs. A farmer that buys futures contracts to 
lock in a price for his produce may face no immediate costs (in contrast with the costs of 
buying put options) but will have to give up potential profits if prices move upwards.  
 The way in which accountants deal with explicit as opposed to implicit costs can 
make a difference in which hedging tool gets chosen. Explicit costs reduce the earnings 
in the period in which the protection is acquired, whereas the implicit costs manifest 
themselves only indirectly in future earnings. Thus, a firm that buys insurance against 
risk will report lower earnings in the period that the insurance is bought whereas a firm 
that uses futures and forward contracts to hedge will not take an earnings hit in that 
period. The effects of the hedging tool used will manifest itself in subsequent periods 
with the latter reducing profitability in the event of upside risk. 
The Benefits of Hedging 
 There are several reasons why firms may choose to hedge risks, and they can be 
broadly categorized into five groups. First, as we noted in the last chapter, the tax laws 
may benefit those who hedge risk. Second, hedging against catastrophic or extreme risk 
may reduce the likelihood and the costs of distress, especially for smaller businesses. 
Third, hedging against risks may reduce the under investment problem prevalent in many 
firms as a result of risk averse managers and restricted capital markets. Fourth, 
minimizing the exposure to some types of risk may provide firms with more freedom to 
fine tune their capital structure. Finally, investors may find the financial statements of 
firms that do hedge against extraneous or unrelated risks to be more informative than 
firms that do not. 
a. Tax Benefits 
 A firm that hedges against risk may receive tax benefits for doing so, relative to 
an otherwise similar firm that does not hedge against risk. As we noted in chapter 9, there 
are two sources for these tax benefits. One flows from the smoothing of earnings that is a 
consequence of effective risk hedging; with risk hedging, earnings will be lower than
14 
they would have been without hedging, during periods where the risk does not manifest 
itself and higher in periods where there is risk exposure. To the extent that the income at 
higher levels gets taxed at higher rates, there will be tax savings over time to a firm with 
more level earnings. To see why, consider a tax schedule, where income beyond a 
particular level (say $ 1 billion) is taxed at a higher rate – i.e., a windfall profit tax. Since 
risk management can be used to smooth out income over time, it is possible for a firm 
with volatile income to pay less in taxes over time as a result of risk hedging. Table 10.3 
illustrates the tax paid by the firm, assuming at tax rate of 30% for income below $ 1 
billion and 50% above $ 1 billion: 
Table 10.3: Taxes Paid: With and Without Risk Management 
 Without risk management With risk management 
Year Taxable Income Taxes Paid Taxable Income Taxes Paid 
1 600 180 800 240 
2 1500 550 1200 400 
3 400 120 900 270 
4 1600 600 1200 400 
Total 4100 1450 4100 1310 
Risk hedging has reduced the taxes paid over 4 years by $140 million. While it is true 
that we have not reflected the cost of risk hedging in the taxable income, the firm can 
afford to spend up to $ 140 million and still come out with a value increase. The tax 
benefits in the example above were predicated on the existence of a tax rate that rises 
with income (convex tax rates). Even in its absence, though, firms that go from making 
big losses in some years to big profits in other years can benefit from risk hedging to the 
extent that they get their tax benefits earlier. In a 1999 study, Graham and Smith provide 
some empirical evidence on the potential tax benefits to companies from hedging by 
looking at the tax structures of U.S. firms. They estimate that about half of all U.S. firms 
face convex effective tax functions (where tax rates risk with income), about a quarter 
have linear tax functions (where tax rates do not change with income) and a quarter 
actually have concave tax functions (where tax rates decrease with income). They also 
note that firms with volatile income near a kink in the statutory tax schedule, and firms
15 
that shift from profits in one period to losses in another, are most likely to have convex 
tax functions. Using simulations of earnings, they estimate the potential tax savings to 
firms and conclude that while they are fairly small for most firms, they can generate tax 
savings that are substantial for a quarter of the firms with convex tax rates. In some cases, 
the savings amounted to more than 40% of the overall tax liability.5 
The other potential tax benefit arises from the tax treatment of hedging expenses 
and benefits. At the risk of over simplification, there will be a tax benefit to hedging if 
the cost of hedging is fully tax deductible but the benefits from insurance are not fully 
taxed. As a simple example, consider a firm that pays $2.5 million in insurance premiums 
each year for three years and receives an expected benefit of $7.5 million at the third 
year. Assume that the insurance premiums are tax deductible but that the insurance 
payout is not taxed. In such a scenario, the firm will clearly gain from hedging. Mains 
(1983) uses a variation of this argument to justify the purchase of insurance by 
companies. He cites an Oil Insurance Association brochure entitled “To Insure or Not to 
Insure” that argues that self-insure property damages are deductible only to the extent of 
the book value but that income from insurance claims is tax free as long as it is used to 
repair or replace the destroyed assets. Even if used elsewhere, firms only have to pay the 
capital gains tax (which is lower than the income tax) on the difference between the book 
value of the asset and the insurance settlement. Since the capital gains tax rate is 
generally lower than the income tax rate, firms can reduce their tax payments by buying 
even fairly-priced insurance.6 
b. Better investment decisions 
 In a perfect world, the managers of a firm would consider each investment 
opportunity based upon its expected cash flows and the risk that that investment adds to 
the investors in the firm. They will not be swayed by risks that can be diversified away by 
these investors, substantial though these risks may be, and capital markets will stand 
ready to supply the funds needed to make these investments.  
                                                
5 Graham, J.R., and C.W. Smith, 1999, Tax Incentives to Hedge, Journal of Finance, v54, 2242-2262. 
6 Mains, B., 1983, Corporate Insurance Purchases and Taxes, Journal of Risk and Insurance, v50, 197-223.
16 
As we noted in chapter 9, there are frictions that can cause this process to break 
down. In particular, there are two problems that affect investment decisions that can be 
traced to the difference between managerial and stockholder interests: 
a. Managerial risk aversion: Managers may find it difficult to ignore risks that are 
diversifiable, partly because their compensation and performance measures are still 
affected by these risks and partly because so much of their human capital is tied up in 
these firms. As a consequence, they may reject investments that add value to the firm 
because the firm-specific risk exposure is substantial.  
b. Capital market frictions: A firm that has a good investment that it does not have cash 
on hand to invest in will have to raise capital by either issuing new equity or by 
borrowing money. In a well cited paper, Jensen and Meckling note that firms that are 
dependent upon new stock issues to fund investments will tend to under invest 
because they have to issue the new shares at a discount; the discount can be attributed 
to the fact that markets cannot distinguish between firms raising funds for good 
investments and those raising funds for poor investments easily and the problem is 
worse for risky companies.7 If firms are dependent upon bank debt for funding 
investments, it is also possible that these investments cannot be funded because 
access to loans is affected by firm-specific risks. Froot, Scharfstein and Stein 
generalize this argument by noting that the firms that hedge against risk are more 
likely to have stable operating cash flows and are thus less likely to face unexpected 
cash shortfalls. As a consequence, they are less dependent upon external financing 
and can stick with long-term capital investment plans and increase value.8 
By allowing managers to hedge firm-specific risks, risk hedging may reduce the number 
of good investments that get rejected either because of managerial risk aversion or lack of 
access to capital.  
                                                
7 Jensen, M.C. and Meckling, W.H. 1976. Theory of the Firm: Managerial Behavior, Agency Costs and 
Ownership Structure, Journal of Financial Economics, 3 (3): 305-360. 
8 Froot, K.A., Scharfstein, D.S. and Stein, J.C. 1993. Risk Management: Coordinating Corporate 
Investment and Financing Policies. Journal of Finance 48(5): 1629-1658;  Froot, K, D Schartstein and J 
Stein, 1994,A Framework for Risk Management, Harvard Business Review, v72,  59 71
17 
c. Distress Costs 
 Every business, no matter how large and healthy, faces the possibility of distress 
under sufficiently adverse circumstances. While bankruptcy can be the final cost of 
distress, the intermediate costs of being perceived to be in trouble are substantial as well. 
Customers may be reluctant to buy your products, suppliers will impose stricter terms and 
employees are likely to look for alternative employment, creating a death spiral from 
which it is difficult to recover. These “indirect” costs of distress can be very large, and 
studies that try to measure it estimate they range from 20% to 40% of firm value.9 
  Given the large costs of bankruptcy, it is prudent for firms to protect themselves 
against risks that may cause distress by hedging against them. In general, these will be 
risks that are large relative to the size of the firm and its fixed commitments (such as 
interest expenses). As an example, while large firms with little debt like Coca Cola can 
easily absorb the costs of exchange rate movements, smaller firms and firms with larger 
debt obligations may very well be pushed to their financial limits by the same risk. 
Consequently, it makes sense for the latter to hedge against risk.10  
 The payoff from lower distress costs show up in value in one of two ways. In a 
conventional discounted cash flow valuation, the effect is likely to manifest itself as a 
lower cost of capital (through a lower cost of debt) and a higher value. In the adjusted 
present value approach, the expected bankruptcy costs will be reduced as a consequence 
of the hedging. To the extent that the increase in value from reducing distress costs 
exceeds the cost of hedging, the value of the firm will increase. Note that the savings in 
distress costs from hedging are likely to manifest themselves in substantial ways only 
when distress costs are large. Consequently, we would expect firms that have borrowed 
money and are exposed to significant operating risk to be better candidates for risk 
                                                
9 Shapiro, A. and S. Titman, 1985, An Integrated Approach to Corporate Risk Management, Midland 
Corporate Finance Journal, v3, 41-55. For an examination of the theory behind indirect bankruptcy costs, 
see Opler, T. and S. Titman, 1994, Financial Distress and Corporate Performance. Journal of Finance 49, 
1015-1040. For an estimate on how large these indirect bankruptcy costs are in the real world, see Andrade, 
G. and S. Kaplan, 1998, How Costly is Financial (not Economic) Distress? Evidence from Highly 
Leveraged Transactions that Become Distressed. Journal of Finance. 53, 1443-1493. They look at highly 
levered transactions that subsequently became distressed snd conclude that the magnitude of these costs 
ranges from 10% to 23% of firm value. 
10 Smith, C.W. and Stulz, R. 1985. The Determinants of Firm’s Hedging Policies. Journal of Financial and 
Quantitative Analysis 20 (4): 391-405; Stulz, R., 1984, Optimal Heding Policies, Journal of Financial and 
Quanititaitive Analysis, v19, 127-140.
18 
hedging. Kale and Noe (1990) make this point when they note that risk hedging can 
actually reduce value at low debt ratios, because any gains from reduced distress costs are 
likely to be small and overwhelmed by the costs of hedging. In contrast, they note that 
hedging can increase firm value for firms that are optimally levered and thus carry 
significant debt loads with concurrent distress costs.11 
d. Capital Structure 
 Closely related to the reduced distress cost benefit is the tax advantage that 
accrues from additional debt capacity. Firms that perceive themselves as facing less 
distress costs are more likely to borrow more. As long as borrowing creates a tax benefit, 
this implies that a firm that hedges away large risks will borrow more money and have a 
lower cost of capital. The payoff will be a higher value for the business.12  
 The evidence on whether hedging does increase debt capacity is mixed. In 
supporting evidence, One study documents a link between risk hedging and debt capacity 
by examining 698 publicly traded firms between 1998 and 2003. This study notes that 
firms that buy property insurance (and thus hedge against real estate risk) borrow more 
money and have lower costs of debt than firms that do not.13 Another study provides 
evidence on why firms hedge by looking at firms that use derivatives. The researchers 
conclude that these firms do so not in response to convex tax functions but primarily to 
increase debt capacity and that the these tax benefits add approximately 1.1% in value to 
these firms. They also find that firms with more debt are more likely to hedge and that 
hedging leads to higher leverage.14 However, there is other research that contests these 
                                                
11 Kale, J.R., and T.H. Noe, 1990, Corporate Hedging under Personal and Corporate Taxation, Managerial 
and Decision Economics, v11, 199-205. 
12 Leland, H., 1998, Agency Costs, Risk Management and Capital Structure, Journal of Finance, v53, 
1213-1243. He combined the investment and financing arguments in arguing that firms can increase value 
by hedging. Firms that pre-commit to hedging against risk can borrow more money and lower their costs of 
capital. 
13 Zou, H. and M.B. Adams, 2004, Debt Capacity, Cost of Debt and Corporate Insurance, Working Paper, 
SSrn.com. 
14 Graham, J.R. and D. A. Rogers, 2002, Do firms hedge in response to tax incentives?, Journal of Finance, 
v57, 815-839.
19 
findings. To provide one instance, Gercy, Minton and Schraud examine firms that use 
currency derivatives and find no link between their usage and higher debt ratios.15  
e. Informational Benefits 
 Hedging away risks that are unrelated to the core business of a firm can also make 
financial statements more informative and investors may reward the firm with a higher 
value. Thus, the changes in earnings for a multinational that hedges exchange rate risk 
will reflect the operating performance of the firm rather than the luck of the draw when it 
comes to exchange rates. Similarly, a hotel management company that has hedged away 
or removed its real estate risk exposure can be judged on the quality of the hotel 
management services that it provides and the revenues generated, rather than the profits 
or losses created by movements in real estate prices over time. 
 In a 1995 paper, DeMarzo and Duffie explore this issue in more detail by looking 
at both the informational advantages for investors when companies hedge risk and the 
effect on hedging behavior of how much the hedging behavior is disclosed to investors. 
They note that the benefit of hedging is that it allows investors to gauge management 
quality more easily by stripping extraneous noise from the process. They also note a 
possible cost when investors use the observed variability in earnings as a measure of 
management quality; in other words, investors assume that firms with more stable 
earnings have superior managers. If managers are not required to disclose hedging 
actions to investors, they may have the incentive to hedge too much risk; after all, 
hedging reduces earnings variability and improves managerial reputation.16 
The Prevalence of Hedging 
 A significant number of firms hedge their risk exposures, with wide variations in 
which risks get hedged and the tools used for hedging. In this section, we will look at 
some of the empirical and survey evidence of hedging among firms. 
                                                
15 Gercy, C., B.A. Minton and C. Schraud, 1997, Why firms use currency derivatives? Journal of Finance, 
v , 1323-1354. 
16 DeMarzo, P.M. and D. Duffie, 1995, Corporate Incentives for Hedging and Hedge Accounting, The 
Review of Financial Studies, v8, 743-771.
20 
Who hedges? 
In 1999, Mian studied the annual reports of 3,022 companies in 1992 and found 
that 771 of these firms did some risk hedging during the course of the year. Of these 
firms, 543 disclosed their hedging activities in the financial statements and 228 
mentioned using derivatives to hedge risk but provided no disclosure about the extent of 
the hedging. Looking across companies, he concluded that larger firms were more likely 
to hedge than smaller firms, indicating that economies of scale allow larger firms to 
hedge at lower costs.17 As supportive evidence of the large fixed costs of hedging, note 
the results of a survey that found that 45% of Fortune 500 companies used at least one 
full-time professional for risk management and that almost 15% used three or more full-
time equivalents.18 
In an examination in 1996 of risk management practices in the gold mining 
industry, Tufano makes several interesting observatiions.19 First, almost 85% of the firms 
in this industry hedged some or a significant portion of gold price risk between 1990 and 
1993.  Figure 10.1 summarizes the distribution of the proportion of gold price risk hedged 
by the firms in the sample.  
                                                
17 Mian, S.I., 1996, Evidence on corporate hedging policy, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 
v31, 419-439. 
18 Dolde, W., 1993, The Trajectory of Corporate Financial Risk Management, Journal of Applied 
Corporate Finance, v6, 33-41. 
19 Tufano, P., 1996, Who manages risk? An Empirical Examination of Risk Management Practices in the 
Gold Mining Industry, Journal of Finance, v51, 1097-1137.
21 
 
Source: Tufano (1996) 
Second, firms where managers hold equity options are less likely to hedge gold price risk 
than firms where managers own stock in the firm. Finally, the extent of risk management 
is negatively related to the tenure of a company’s CFO; firms with long-serving CFOs 
manage less risk than firms with newly hired CFOs. 
What risks are most commonly hedged? 
 While a significant proportion of firms hedge against risk, some risks seem to be 
hedged more often than others. In this section, we will look at the two most widely 
hedged risks at U.S. companies – exchange rate risk and commodity price risk – and 
consider how and why firms hedge these risks.  
Exchange Rate Risk 
 Surveys consistently indicate that the most widely hedged risk at U.S. firms 
remains currency risk. There are three simple reasons for this phenomenon.  
a. It is ubiquitous: It is not just large multi-national firms that are exposed to exchange 
rate risk. Even small firms that derive almost all of their revenues domestically are often 
dependent upon inputs that come from foreign markets and are thus exposed to exchange
22 
rate risk. An entertainment software firm that gets its software written in India for sale in 
the United States is exposed to variations in the U.S. dollar/ Indian Rupee exchange rate.  
b. It affects earnings: Accounting conventions also force firms to reflect the effects of 
exchange rate movements on earnings in the periods in which they occur. Thus, the 
earnings per share of firms that do not hedge exchange rate risk will be more volatile than 
firms that do. As a consequence, firms are much more aware of the effects of the 
exchange rate risk, which may provide a motivation for managing it.  
c. It is easy to hedge: Exchange rate risk can be managed both easily and cheaply. Firms 
can use an array of market-traded instruments including options and futures contracts to 
reduce or even eliminate the effects of exchange rate risk. 
 Merck’s CFO in 1990, Judy Lewent, and John Kearny described the company’s 
policy on identifying and hedging currency risk. They rationalized the hedging of 
currency risk by noting that the earnings variability induced by exchange rate movements 
could affect Merck’s capacity to pay dividends and continue to invest in R&D, because 
markets would not be able to differentiate between earnings drops that could be attributed 
to the managers of the firm and those that were the result of currency risk. A drop in 
earnings caused entirely by an adverse exchange rate movement, they noted, could cause 
the stock price to drop, making it difficult to raise fresh capital to cover needs.20 
Commodity Price Risk 
 While more firms hedge against exchange rate risk than commodity risk, a greater 
percentage of firms that are exposed to commodity price risk hedge that risk. Tufano’s 
study of gold mining companies, cited earlier in this section, notes that most of these 
firms hedge against gold price risk. While gold mining and other commodity companies 
use hedging as a way of smoothing out the revenues that they will receive on the output, 
there are companies on the other side of the table that use hedging to protect themselves 
against commodity price risk in their inputs. For instance, Hershey’s can use futures 
contracts on cocoa to reduce uncertainty about its costs in the future. 
                                                
20 Lewent, J. and J. Kearney, 1990, ”Identifying Measuring and Hedging Currency Risk at Merck,” Journal 
of Applied Corporate Finance, v2, 19-28.
23 
 Southwest Airlines use of derivatives to manage its exposure to fuel price risk 
provides a simple example of input price hedging and why firms do it. While some 
airlines try to pass through increases in fuel prices through to their customers (often 
unsuccessfully) and otrhers avoid hedging because they feel they can forecast future oil 
prices, Southwest has viewed it as part of its fiduciary responsibility to its stockholders to 
hedge fuel price risk. They use a combination of options, swaps and futures to hedge oil 
price movements and report on their hedging activities in their financial statements. 
 The motivations for hedging commodity price risk may vary across companies 
and are usually different for companies that hedge against output price risk (like gold 
companies) as opposed to companies that hedge against input price risk (such as airlines) 
but the end result is the same. The former are trying to reduce the volatility in their 
revenues and the latter are trying to do the same with cost, but the net effect for both 
groups is more stable and predictable operating income, which presumably allows these 
firms to have lower distress costs and borrow more. With both groups, there is another 
factor at play. By removing commodity price risk from the mix, firms are letting 
investors know that their strength lies not in forecasting future commodity prices but in 
their operational expertise. A gold mining company is then asking to be judged on its 
exploration and production expertise, whereas an fuel hedging airline’s operating 
performance will reflect its choice of operating routes and marketing skills.  
Does hedging increase value? 
 Hedging risks has both implicit and explicit costs that can vary depending upon 
the risk being hedged and the hedging tool used, and the benefits include better 
investment decisions, lower distress costs, tax savings and more informative financial 
statements. The trade off seems simple; if the benefits exceed the costs, you should hedge 
and if the costs exceed the benefits, you should not.  
This simple set-up is made more complicated when we consider the investors of 
the firm and the costs they face in hedging the same risks. If hedging a given risk creates 
benefits to the firm, and the hedging can be done either by the firm or by investors in the 
firm, the hedging will add value only if the cost of hedging is lower to the firm than it is 
to investors. Thus, a firm may be able to hedge its exposure to sector risk by acquiring
24 
firms in other businesses, but investors can hedge the same risk by holding diversified 
portfolios. The premiums paid in acquisitions will dwarf the transactions costs faced by 
the latter; this is clearly a case where the risk hedging strategy will be value destroying. 
In contrast, consider an airline that is planning on hedging its exposure to oil price risk 
because it reduces distress costs. Since it is relatively inexpensive to buy oil options and 
futures and the firm is in a much better position to know its oil needs than its investors, 
this is a case where risk hedging by the firm will increase value. Figure 10.2 provides a 
flowchart for determining whether firms should hedge or not hedge the risks that they are 
faced with. 
Figure 10.2: To Hedge or not to Hedge? 
Will the benefits persist if 
investors hedge the risk insted 
of the firm? 
What is tthe cost to the firm of hedging this risk?
Negligible High
Is there a significant benefit in 
terms of higher cash flows or a 
lower discount rate?
Yes
Is there a significant benefit in 
terms of higher cash flows or a 
lower discount rate?
Yes No
Do not hedge this 
risk. The benefits 
are small relative to 
costs
Can investors hedge this 
risk at lower cost than the 
firm?
Yes No
Hedge this risk. The 
benefits to the firm will 
exceed the costs
Yes No
Hedge this risk. The 
benefits to the firm will 
exceed the costs
Let the risk pass 
through to 
investors and let 
them hedge the 
risk.
Hedge this risk. The 
benefits to the firm will 
exceed the costs
No
Indifferent to 
hedging risk
 
The evidence on whether risk hedging increases value is mixed. In a book on risk 
management, Smithson presents evidence that he argues is consistent with the notion that 
risk management increases value, but the increase in value at firms that hedge is small
25 
and not statistically significant.21 The study by Mian, referenced in the last section, finds 
only weak or mixed evidence of the potential hedging benefits– lower taxes and distress 
costs or better investment decisions. In fact, the evidence in inconsistent with a distress 
cost model, since the companies with the greatest distress costs hedge the least. Tufano’s 
study of gold mining companies, also referenced in the last section, also finds little 
support for the proposition that hedging is driven by the value enhancement concerns; 
rather, he concludes that managerial compensation mechanisms and risk aversion explain 
the differences in risk management practices across these companies. 
In summary, the benefits of hedging are hazy at best and non-existent at worst, 
when we look at publicly traded firms. While we have listed many potential benefits of 
hedging including tax savings, lower distress costs and higher debt ratios, there is little 
evidence that they are primary motivators for hedging at most companies. In fact, a 
reasonable case can be made that most hedging can be attributed to managerial interests 
being served rather than increasing stockholder value. 
Alternative techniques for hedging risk 
 If you decide to reduce your exposure to a risk or risks, there are several 
approaches that you can use. Some of these are integrated into the standard investment 
and financing decisions that every business has to make; your risk exposure is determined 
by the assets that you invest in and by the financing that you use to fund these assets. 
Some have been made available by a large and growing derivatives markets where 
options, futures and swaps can be used to manage risk exposure.  
Investment Choices 
 Some of the risk that a firm is exposed to is mitigated by the investment decisions 
that it makes. Consider retail firms like the Gap and Ann Taylor. One of the risks that 
they face is related to store location, with revenues and operating income being affected 
by foot traffic at the mall or street that a store is placed on. This risk is lowered by the 
fact that these firms also have dozens of store locations in different parts of the country; a 
                                                
21 Smithson, C., 1999, Does risk management work?, Risk, July 1999, pp 44-45.
26 
less-than-expected foot traffic at one store can be made up for with more-then-expected 
foot traffic at another store.  
 It is not just the firm-specific risks (like location) that can be affected by 
investment decisions. Companies like Citicorp and Coca Cola have argued that their 
exposure to country risk, created by investing in emerging markets with substantial risk, 
is mitigated (though not eliminated) by the fact that they operate in dozens of countries. 
A sub-standard performance in one country (say Brazil) can be offset by superior 
performance in another (say India). 
 Strategists and top managers of firms that diversify into multiple businesses have 
often justified this push towards becoming conglomerates by noting that diversification 
reduces earnings variability and makes firms more stable. While they have a point, a 
distinction has to be drawn between this risk reduction and the examples cited in the 
previous two paragraphs. Ann Taylor, The Gap, Citicorp and Coca Cola can all reduce 
risk through their investment choices without giving up on the base principle of picking 
good investments. Thus, the Gap can open only good stores and still end up with dozens 
of stores in different locations. In contrast, a firm that decides to become a conglomerate 
by acquiring firms in other businesses has to pay significant acquisition premiums. There 
are usually more cost-effective ways of accomplishing the same objective. 
Financing Choices 
 Firms can affect their overall risk exposure through their financing choices. A 
firm that expects to have significant cash inflows in yen on a Japanese investment can 
mitigate some of that risk by borrowing in yen to fund the investment. A drop in the 
value of the yen will reduce the expected cash inflows (in dollar terms) but there will be 
at least a partially offsetting impact that will reduce the expected cash outflows in dollar 
terms. 
 The conventional advice to companies seeking to optimize their financing choices 
has therefore been to match the characteristics of debt to more of the project funded with 
the debt. The failure to do so increases default risk and the cost of debt, thus increasing 
the cost of capital and lowering firm value.  Conversely, matching debt to assets in terms
27 
of maturity and currency can reduce default risk and the costs of debt and capital, leading 
to higher firm value. 
 What are the practical impediments to this debt matching strategy? First, firms 
that are restricted in their access to bond markets may be unable to borrow in their 
preferred mode. Most firms outside and even many firms in the United States have access 
only to bank borrowing and are thus constrained by what banks offer. If, as is true in 
many emerging markets, banks are unwilling to lend long term in the local currency, 
firms with long-term investments will have to borrow short term or in a different 
currency to fund their needs. Second, there can be market frictions that make it cheaper 
for a firm to borrow in one market than another; a firm that has a low profile 
internationally but a strong reputation in its local market may be able to borrow at a much 
lower rate in the local currency (even after adjusting for inflation differences across 
currencies). Consequently, it may make sense to raise debt in the local currency to fund 
investments in other 
