Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/RussiaMarkets.pdf

RUSSIAINTHEUKRAINE:LET 
LOOSE THE DOGS OF WAR!
WorldWarIII?
2
A Human Tragedy
qAs the world's attention is focused on the war in the 
Ukraine, it is the human toll, in death and injury, that 
should get our immediate attention, and you may find a 
focus on economics and markets to be callous. 
qHowever, I am not a political expert, with solutions to 
offer that will bring the violence to an end, and I don't 
think that you have come here to read about my views 
on humanity. 
qConsequently, I will concentrate this post on how this 
crisis is playing out in markets, and the effects it has had, 
so far, on businesses and investments, and whether 
these effects are likely to be transient or permanent.
3
The Lead In: Small Economic Footprints..
4
But Big CommodityFootprints…
5
Bond Markets and Default Risk: The Direct 
Casualties…
6
With ripple effects on other sovereigns..
7
And corporate spreads…
8
On to Equities: Russia and Ukranian
Indices…
9
Zeroing in on Russian companies…
10
Ripple Effects: Regions
11
And across sectors…
12
Value vs Growth and Indebtedness
13
Implied ERP , by Day…
14
Flight to safety?
15
And to crisis assets…
16
Commodity Prices
17
Inflation Expectations
18
Consumer Confidence
19
Recession Fears
20
Investment Implications: Revaluing the 
S&P 500
21
Contrarian or Momentum
¨If you are a knee-jerk contrarian, your default belief is that markets over 
react, and you would be buying into the most damaged asset classes, 
which would include US, European and Chinese stocks (worst performing 
geographies), and especially those intechnology and consumer 
discretionary spaces (worst performing sectors), andselling those 
investments (energy companies and commodities like oil, that have 
benefited the most from the turmoil.
¨If, on the other hand, you believe that investors are not fully incorporating 
the effects of the long termdamage from this war, you would reverse the 
contrarian strategy, and buy the geographies and sectors that have 
benefited already and sell those that have been hurt.
¨As an avowed non-market-timer, I think that both these strategies 
represent bludgeons in a market that needs scalpels. Rather than make 
broad sector or geographic bets, I would suggest making more focused 
bets on individual companies.
22
Investment Strategies
¨ Discounted T ech:During the course of2022, markets have reassessed their pricing of tech stocks, 
and marked down their market capitalizations, for both older, and profitable tech and young, 
money-losing but high growth tech. 
¤ A few weeks ago, I posted my valuation of the FANGAM stocks and noted that only one of them was under 
valued, at the prices prevailing then. In the last few days, every company on the list has dipped in price by 
enough to be atleastfairly valuedor even cheap. 
¤ While there may be value in some young tech companies, any investments in these firms will be joint bets on 
the companies and a strong economy, and with the uncertainties about inflation and economic growth 
overhanging the market, I would be cautious.
¨ Safety First: If you have been spooked by market volatility and the Russian crisis, andbelieve that 
there is more volatility coming to the market in the rest of the year, your stock picks will reflect 
your fears. You are looking for companies with pricing power (to pass through inflation) and stable 
revenues, and in my view, and while you should start by looking in the conventional places 
(branded consumer products and food processing, pharmaceuticals), you should also take a lookat 
some of the big names in technology.
¨ The Russia Play: Forthe true bargain hunters, the wipeout of market capitalization of Russian 
stocks (like Sberbank, Severstal, Lukoil and Yandex) will create temptation.  A less risky route would 
be to tag companies with significant exposure to Russia, such as Pepsi, McDonald's and Philip 
Morris, and evaluate whether the market is overreacting to that exposure. I have seen no 
evidence, so far, that this is the case, but that may change.
23
ASoberingThought…
¨ There is one final sobering note to add to this discussion, and that relates to low 
probability, potentially catastrophic events, and how markets deal with them. 
There is a worst casescenario in the Russia-Ukraine war, that few of us are willing 
to openly consider, where the conflagration spreads beyond the Ukraine, and 
nuclear and chemical weapons come into play. 
¨ While the probability of this scenario may be very low, it is not zero, and to be 
honest, there is no investing strategy that will protect you from that scenario, but 
market pricing will reflect that fear . If we escape that doomsday scenario, and 
come back to something resembling normalcy, markets will bounce back, and in 
hindsight, it will look like they over reactedin the first place, even if the risk 
assessments were right, at the time. 
¨ Put simply, assuming thatcrises will always end well, and that markets will 
inevitably bounce back, just because that is what you have observed in your 
lifetime, can be dangerous.
¨
