Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TrillionDollarToppers.pdf

TRILLION DOLLAR TOPPERS: 
MARKET TRIGGERS, VALUE 
DRIVERS AND PRICING CATALYSTS
Bridging the divide between value & charts
2
Trillion Dollar Capitalization
¨ Apple and Amazon each hit a trillion dollars, drawing 
press attention and commentary about what this 
moment means for markets, investors and the 
companies themselves. 
¨ I have followed both companies and valued them for 
more than two decades, and this is as good a time as any 
to see how they got to where they are today, and what 
the future holds for each company
¨ Before I value them again, here is a far more basic 
question: Should hitting a trillion dollar value (or a 
hundred billion or a billion or any other number) matter 
to investors?
3
It is human nature to attach significance to
numbers..
¨ As human beings, we do make more of a fuss around 
some numbers than others, especially with age and 
birthdays.
¨ In some cases, the fuss is merited, as when you turn 
eighteen, since you will be able to vote and be treated as 
an adult in the legal system, or sixty five, since you may 
be entitled to your pension and social security benefits. 
¨ In others, it is a concocted milestone, as is the case when 
you turn thirty or forty or fifty years old, since little 
changes in your life, as a consequence.
4
Investors do the same…
¨ Price triggers: When a publicly traded company’s stock price 
drops below a dollar, it is often punished, because it risks 
being delisted, putting liquidity at risk. When the stock prices 
rises above $1,000, the company may come under pressure 
to do a stock split, because it has become “too expensive” for 
retail investors to buy. 
¨ Capitalization triggers: With young, privately owned 
companies, getting a pricing of more than a billion dollars 
gets you unicorn status, though it not clear what that 
branding entitles you to, other than a little public attention. 
¨ Operating metric triggers: Within corporate finance, there are 
similar triggers built around revenues and profits, with 
management contracts tied to revenues reaching a billion 
dollars or EBITDA cresting one hundred million.
5
The Market Reaction to Triggers
¨ While some investors view them as side games, 
there are others who build much of their investing 
around market triggers. 
¨ Value investors, and especially those raised on the 
classics, scoff at price triggers as distractions from 
their focus on earnings and moats but they often 
have their own triggers, based upon earnings or 
book value. 
¨ In contrast, a great deal of technical analysis, as an 
investment philosophy, is built on triggers, many 
built around price per share.
6
Should triggers matter? The market 
speaks..
¨ With stock splits, the market not only reacts positively to the 
split but these stocks continue to do better than expected in 
the months after .
¨ When a stock approaches its 52-week high, there is some 
evidence that the high price acts as a barrier .
¨ There is some evidence that support and resistance lines 
have price effects; one study focusing on exchange 
rates concluded that pricing trends in currency rates are more 
likely to be interrupted at support and resistance lines.
¨ A general study of technical analysis(and price patterns) 
concludes that technical indicators, such as head-and-
shoulders and double bottoms do have a price impact, 
though it is unclear that you can make money of these price 
movements.
7
A Framework for Understanding Triggers
8
1. Value Effects
¨ If a market trigger has aneffect on one or more of the three drivers of 
value, which are cash flows, growth and business risk, it can affect value. 
¤ Revenue or earnings triggers set by companies can have an effect on value, if 
management compensation is tied to them. 
¤ With some corporate borrowings, there are covenants tied to stock prices or 
earnings, the violation of which may lead to consequences for the firm, sometimes 
taking the form of higher interest expenses and sometimes a change in control. 
¤ With convertible bonds and preferred shares, the conversion price can become a 
trigger for a change in value, if it results in a significant increase in shares 
outstanding and in debt ratios. 
¨ Consider the grant that Tesla’s board of directors gave Elon Muskin 
March 2018, where he will get billions of dollars in shares and options in 
the company, if he can deliver on a variety of targets, some related to 
market capitalization and some to operating performance. (12 market 
capitalization triggers, 8 revenuetriggers and 8 EBITDA triggers).
9
2. Pricing Effects
¨ Psychological effect: If a market trigger has an effect on 
market mood or momentum, it can affect prices, even 
though it has no effect on fundamentals. For example, 
when a company’s stock price drops below its support 
line, it creates a negative psychological effect that can 
cause more selling, with prices falling even further. 
¨ Liquidity effect: If crossing a pricing barriers affects 
liquidity, it can affect prices. (Examples: Price dropping 
below a dollar, Unicorn companies) 
¨ Herd effect: where crossing a pricing or value trigger can 
lead people who have been sitting on the sidelines to 
act, pushing up prices if they decide to buy and pushing 
down prices when they sell.
10
3. Gap (Catalyst) Effect
¨ The attention garnered by crossing even an arbitrary 
threshold can lead to a reassessment of the company. This is 
especially the case with smaller and lower profile companies, 
which can often be ignored by investors and analysts, in a 
market where larger and higher profile companies garner the 
bulk of coverage. 
¨ To the extent that these companies are being mispriced, the 
attention can lead to a closing of the gap between price and 
value. 
¨ Note that this reassessment can cut in both directions, with 
unnoticed strengths coming to the surface, and increasing the 
prices of some companies, and unnoticed weaknesses being 
unearthed in other companies, resulting in prices dropping.
11
Trillion Dollar Trigger? Looking at Apple 
and Amazon
¨ No value effect: Neither Apple nor has options or convertibles that will 
unlock at the trillion dollar capitalization and thus there should be no 
value effect. 
¨ Some pricing effect: There may be a pricing effect, but it is not clear in 
which direction. On the one hand, you can argue that for some long term 
holders of the stock, crossing the trillion dollars may be a culmination of a 
long and successful journey, leading to selling. On the other hand, there 
are others who may have resisted both stocks as overpriced, who may 
decide that this is the time to capitulate and buy the stock. 
¨ No stockholder reassessment, but…As two of the most widely tracked 
and followed companies in the world already, it is not likely that there will 
be any major reassessments in either company, on the part of 
stockholders, nullifying the gap effect. There is one potential black cloud 
that comes with the increased attention, at least for Amazon, which is 
that the company's success may be drawing the attention of anti-trust 
and regulatory authorities.
12
Using triggers in investing
¨ If you are a trader: It does not surprise me that charting 
and technical indicators are built heavily around these 
triggers. If you are a good trader, and I believe that they 
are some, your strength is in assessing how these 
triggers change mood and getting ahead of the market 
on these shifts.
¨ If you are a value investor: While your focus should 
remain on value, you should consider incorporating 
pricing triggers into your value mission for two reasons. 
¤ Some triggers have value effects. 
¤ If market triggers can operate as catalysts, causing price to move 
to value, incorporating them into your investment process can 
unlock the value mistake that you have found.
13
My bottom line
¨ I am a value investor, but I do look at pricing triggers, especially 
with small cap, lightly followed and emerging market companies. 
¨ If I value a stock at $6 a share and it is trading at $4.10/share, but 
its historical low price is $4 (the support line), I may wait to buy it, 
hoping for one of two outcomes. 
¤ The first is that it hits the support line and does not drop below it, 
signaling a positive shift in momentum, indicating that this would be a 
good time to buy. 
¤ The second is that it drops below its support line, resulting in a negative 
shift in momentum and more selling, allowing me to buy the stock at an 
even lower price. 
¨ My primary decision of whether to buy or sell a stock is driven by 
value judgments, the question of when to do it can be affected by 
market triggers.
14
Back to Amazon and Apple
¨ I own shares in Apple and I don’t own any (right now) in 
Amazon. 
¤ With my Apple shares, I have been rewarded well over my 
almost three-year holding period, and the question then 
becomes whether the trillion dollar market capitalization should 
make a difference in whether I continue to hold the shares. 
¤ With Amazon, I saw little reason to buy the stock a few months 
ago, as I noted in this post, where I argued that it was a great 
company but not a great investment. The question then 
becomes whether market capitalization crossing the trillion 
dollar changes that assessment. 
¨ My next post….
