Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/feedbackloop.pdf

PRICE AND VALUE: THE 
FEEDBACK LOOP AT GME AND 
AMC
ConnectingPrice to Value
2
The Question
¨One topic that I have always wanted to write about is the 
potential for a feedback loop between price and value. I 
can see you already rolling your eyes and getting ready 
to move on.. But hang on…
¨With the frenzy around GameStop and AMC, you may 
find it interesting. 
¤Specifically, a key question that many investors, traders and 
interested observers have been asking is whether a company, 
whose stock price and business is beleaguered, can take 
advantage of a soaring stock price to not just pull itself out of 
trouble, but make itself more valuable.
¤Conversely, can a healthy company be dragged down by its stock 
price dropping too low?
3
Price, Value and the Gap
4
Efficient Markets?
¨In an efficient market, the value and pricing 
processes do not leak into each other . In terms of 
specifics, when a stock's value is roughly equal to its 
price:
¤Issuing new shares at the market price will have no effect 
on the value per share or the price per share, dilution 
bogeyman notwithstanding.
¤Buying back shares at the market price will have no effect 
on the value per share or price per share of the remaining 
shares, even though the earnings per share may increase 
as a result of decreased share count.
5
The Feedback Loop
6
And its limits with stock issuances..
¨ Regulations and legal restrictions: A share issuance by a company that is already 
public is a secondary offering, and while it is less involved than a primary offering 
(IPO), there are still regulatory requirements that take time and require SEC 
approval. 
¨ Demand, supply and momentum: If the price is set by demand and supply, 
increasing the supply of shares will cause price to drop, but the effect is more 
insidious. To the extent that the demand for an over valued stock is driven by 
mood and momentum, the very act of issuing shares can alter momentum, 
magnifying the downward pressure on stock prices. 
¨ Value transfer, not value creation: The increase in value per share that you get 
comes from a value transfer, from the shareholders who buy the newly issued 
shares at too high a price to the existing shareholders in the company.
¨ Cash and trust: If you can live with the value transfer, there is one final hurdle. The 
new stock issuance will leave the company with a substantial cash balance, and if 
the company's business model is broken, there is a very real danger that 
managers, rather than follow finding productive ways to fix the model will waste 
the cash trying to reinvent themselves.
7
And with buybacks..
¨With buybacks, the benefits of buying shares back at below 
value are much touted, and Warren Buffett made this precept 
an explicit part of the Berkshire Hathaway buyback program, 
but buybacks face the same problems often in reverse. 
¨But it too has its limits:
¤A large buyback may require a tender offer, with all ofthe costs and 
restrictions that come with them.
¤The act of buying back stock may push the price up and beyond value 
and buybacks too create no value. 
¤The value transfer in buybacks, if they occur at below fair value, is also 
for existing shareholders, but the losers will be those shareholders 
who sold their shares back. 
¤Finally, a buyback funded with cash that a company could have used 
on productive investment opportunities is lost value for the company.
8
Reality Checks for GME and AMC
¨Perception: For the moment, the rise in the stock price has bought 
breathing room in both companies, as lenders back off, but that effect is 
likely to be transient. Perception alone cannot drive up value.
¨Implicit effects: On this dimension, AMC has already derived tangible 
benefits,as $600 million in convertible debt will become equity, making 
the company far less distressed. For those Redditors primed for revenge, 
it is worth noting that the biggest beneficiary in this conversion is Silver 
lake, a hedge fund that invested in these bonds in the dark days for the 
company. 
¨Explicit effects: On December 11, well ahead of the stock run-up. In that 
offering, AMC filed for approval for issuance of up to 178 million 
additional shares, from time to time, primarily to pay down debt. If the 
stock price stays elevated, and that is a big if, AMC will be able to issue 
shares at a price > value and increase its value per share. It is unclear 
whether GameStop has the time to even try to do this, especially if the 
stock price rise dissipates in days or weeks, rather than months.
9
Feedback Loop at GME –Valuepershare effect
¨I modified my base case GameStop valuation, which 
gave me an intrinsic value of $28.17,  and allowed 
for two additional inputs: new shares issued and an 
issuance price.
10
And the value transfer
11
Revenge on your mind..
¨Investing with the intent of causing pain to someone else is 
understandable, especially when the other party is viewed as evil 
or privileged. 
¨But itis also dangerous, at least in the context of markets because:
¤By losing sight of the end game in investing, which is preserving and 
growing your wealth, you may very well succeed at hurting your targets 
but do even more damage to yourself.
¤The winners and losers from an investing episode are a quickly shifting 
coalition, with investors moving from side to side. Thepeoplewhoare
helpedandhurtarenotalwaysthe people that you set out to help or hurt.
¤If you truly want to punish a group that you think is deserving of 
punishment, you have tofind a way to alter their investment models. With 
hedge funds, the best revenge you can have is to see investorscollectively 
pull their money out of funds, and that will happen if they under perform 
as a group.
