Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRisk2025.pdf

Politics, Economics and Business!
§At the start of July 2025, I updated my estimates of equity risk 
premiums for countries, in a ritual that goes back almost three 
decades. As with some of my other data updates, I have mixed 
feelings about doing so. 
§On the one hand, I have no qualms about sharing these 
estimates, which I use when I value companies, because there is no 
secret sauce or special insight embedded in them. 
§On the other, I worry about people using these premiums in their 
valuations, without understanding the choices and assumptions 
that I had to make to get to them. 
§Country risk, in particular, has many components to it, and 
while you must ultimately capture them in numbers, I wanted to 
use this post to draw attention to the many layers of risk that 
separate countries. I hope, and especially if you are a user of 
my risk premiums, that you read this post, and if you do
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
¨7
Aswath Damodaran 8
1. Sovereign Default Risk:  The most widely accessible 
measures of country risk focus on just default risk. 
a. Sovereign Ratings:  The ratings agencies that rate companies for 
default risk also rate governments with sovereign ratings, using 
the same alphabet ratings from Aaato D.
b.Sovereign CDS spreads:  You can buy insurance against default 
risk in the sovereign CDS market, when you invest in the 
government bonds issued by a subset of countries.
2. Composite Country Risk: There are services that measure 
country risk, looking at all the dimensions of country risk, 
and converting them into scores. The services vary in what 
they look at and the scores are neither standardized nor 
comparable.
Aswath Damodaran 9
§Start with a mature market premium, i.e., the equity risk premium 
you would charge in a mature equity market.
§For decades, the standard approach has been to use the US as the base 
mature market and use the historical risk premium earned by stocks 
over treasuries as the mature market premium.
§This approach is flawed for two reasons. 
§The historical premium is backward-looking, noisy and reflective of a vry
different global economy (from the twentieth century_). I think that we get 
better estimates with forward-looking and implied premiums.
§In May 2025, Moody’s downgraded the US from Aaato Aa1, implying that it is 
now riskier than other Aaarated countries.
§Adjust that equity risk premium by estimating an added premium 
for markets that are not mature.
§The default approach used by many analysts is to add the default 
spread for the country to the mature market premium.
§In my modified approach,  I scale up the default spread for the higher 
risk of equity , relative to government bonds.
§I have shared my equity risk premiums, by country, and I am 
flattered that there are analysts that have found use for it. 
§One reason may be that it is free, but I do have concerns 
sometimes that they may be misused, and the fault is mine for 
not clarifying how they should be used. 
§In this section, I will lay out steps in using these equity risk 
premiums in corporate finance and valuation practice, and if I 
have still left areas of grey, please let me know.
§The equity risk premium is a measure of the “extra” return that 
investors need to make, over and above the riskfree rate, to 
compensate for the higher risk that they are exposed to, on an 
equity investment. 
§In the context of country risk, it implies that investments in 
riskier countries will need higher returns to beat benchmarks 
in safer countries. 
§It is also worth recognizing how equity risk premiums play out 
investing and valuation. Increasing the equity risk premium will 
raise the rate of return you need to make on an investment, and 
by doing so, reduce its value.
§Not all companies or projects are average risk, for equity investors 
in them, and you need ameasure of this relative risk. The betais 
one measure, but as I have argued elsewhere, I am completely at 
home with alternative measures of relative equity risk. 
Cost of equity = Riskfree rate + Beta×Equity Risk Premium
The beta (relative risk measure) measures the risk of the business that the 
company/project is in, and for a diversified investor, captures only risk 
that cannot be diversified away.
§For the cost of debt, you need to estimate the default spread that 
the company will face. If the company has a bond rating, you can 
use this rating to estimate the default spread, and if it is not, you 
can use the company's financials to assess a synthetic rating.
§Cost of debt =Riskfree Rate + Default spread
Harking back to the discussion of riskfree rates, a company in a country 
with sovereign default risk will often bear a double burden, carrying 
default spreads for both itself and the country.
§The currency choice made in step 2 determines not only the 
discount rates that you will be using but also the expected cash 
flows, with expected inflation driving both inputs.
§Thus, if you analyze a Turkish project in lira, where the expected 
inflation rate is 15%, you should expect to see costs of equity and 
capital that exceed 20%, but you should also see growth rates in the 
cash flows to be inflated the same expected inflation. 
§If you assess the same project in Euros, where the expected inflation 
is 2%, you should expect to see much lower discount rates, high 
county risk notwithstanding, but the expected growth in cash flows 
will also be muted, because of the low inflation.
§My Annual Update on country risk
§This is a long and boring paper, but it provides the details of 
everything that I know about country risk.
§Country Risk Determinants: Determinants, Measures and 
Implications -The 2025 Edition
§Datasets on beta and ERP
§This spreadsheet contains the gory details of my ERP calculations.
§Equity Risk Premiums, by country -July 2025
§Spreadsheets
§If you are interested in seeing the mechanics of computing a 
forward-looking premium, try this spreadsheet.
§Implied Equity Risk Premium for S&P 500 on July 1, 2025
