Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/FBCorpGov.pdf

META LESSON 1: THE TRUE MEANING 
OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The power to change…
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Fall of Tech?
¨As we get deeper into earnings season for the third quarter of 2022, the 
biggest negative surprises are coming from technology companies, with 
the tech giants leading the way. Investors, used to a decade of better-
than-expected earnings and rising stock prices at these companies, have 
been blindsided by unexpected bad news in earnings reports, and have 
knocked down the market capitalization of these companies by hundreds 
of billions of dollars in the last few weeks. 
¨Facebook (or Meta, if you prefer its new name), in particular, hasbeen in 
the eye of the storm, down more than 75% from the trillion-dollar market 
capitalization that it enjoyed just over a year ago. 
¤In its last earnings report, the company managed to disappoint almost every 
segment of the market, shocking growth investors with a drop in quarterly 
revenues, and value investors with a sharp decline in earnings and cash flows. 
¤In the days after the report, the reaction has predictably fallen into the extremes, 
with one group arguing that this is the beginning of the end for the company's 
business and the other suggesting that this is the time to buy the stock, as it 
prepares for a new growth spurt.
3
The Big Issues
¨In this first post, I will use the investor debate about Facebook to 
talk about corporate governance, what it is, why it matters and 
how I think governance disclosure research, rules and scoring 
services have lost the script in the last two decades. 
¨In the next post, I will use Facebook's most recent earnings surprise 
to talk about inconsistencies in how accountants categorize 
corporate spending, and why these inconsistencies can skew 
investors perceptions of corporate profitability and financial health. 
¨In the third and final post, I will argue that Facebook's troubles with 
the market have as much to do with a failure of narrative, as they 
are about disappointing numbers, and present a template for what 
the company needs to do, to reclaim the high ground.
4
Background: Facebook’s Market Journey
5
Facebook: Perspective
¨ Buyandholdreturns:IfyouhadboughtsharesinFacebookonitsfirsttrading
day,youwouldhavepaid$38.12,andifyouhadheldthestockthrough
October27,2022,whenitwastradingat$93/share,thatwouldhave
translatedintoacumulativereturnof144%.Thatwouldhaveleftyoulagging
the181%priceappreciationthatyouwouldhaveearnedontheS&P500
duringtheperiod,andevenmoreso,ifyouconsiderthefactthatyouwould
haveearnednodividendsonFacebook,whilegeneratingabouta2%dividend
yield,everyyearontheindex.
¨ Currentstanding:Ataroughly$250billionmarketcapitalization,Facebookis
alargemarket-capcompany,butithaslostitsstandingamongthelargest
marketcapcompaniesintheworldthatifoccupiedforanextendedperiod
duringthelastdecade.
¨ Trader'sgame:Alongtheway,Facebookhashaditsupsanddowns,anda
savvytraderwhowasabletotimeentryandexitintothestockattheright
times,wouldhavemadeakillingonthestock.Iknowthatcanbesaidofany
stock,buttheswingsinfortunearemuchgreateratcompanieslikeFacebook,
makingthemthemthepreferredhabitatfortradersofallstripes.
6
Facebook’s Operating Journey
Aswath Damodaran
7
The 2022 Surprises: Flat Revenues
Aswath Damodaran
8
And a drop in profitability…
Aswath Damodaran
9
The Bigger Challenges
1. OnlineAdMarketLevelingoff:Facebookisanonlineadvertisingcompany,andformuchof
itsearlyyears,itbenefitedfromgrowthintheonlineadvertisingmarket,largelyatthe
expenseoftraditionaladvertising(newspapers,televisionetc.).Asonlineadvertising
approachestwo-thirdsofalladvertising,thatgrowthisnowlevelingoff,andasoneofthe
twolargestplayers(andbeneficiaries)ofthemarket,Facebookisfacingagrowthcrunch.
2. Onlineadvertisingiscyclical:Asonlineadvertisinghasgrownoverthelastdecade,there
weresomewhoarguedthatonlineadvertisingwouldbemoreresilientthantraditional
advertising,inthefaceofeconomicshocks,butthisyear'sdevelopmentshaveshown
otherwise.Aseconomicgrowthhasslowedandconcernsaboutarecessionhaverisen,
revenuegrowthhasdroppedatallthecompaniesinthisspacehasdeclined.Theconclusion
isthatonlineadvertisingiscyclical,andifweareinthemidstofaneconomicslowdown,the
companiesinthisspacewillfeelthepain.
3. Reputationeffects:WhileFacebookmadeitthroughtheprivacychallengeswithrevenue
growthandprofitabilityintact,itisundeniablethatthecompany'sreputationtookabeating.
Inmyview,thistoxicity,asmuchasthedesiretoenteranewmarketintheMetaverse,
explainswhyFacebookchangeditsnametoMetainNovember2021.
10
Corporate Governance: The Stakeholders
11
Shareholder vs Stockholders
Aswath Damodaran
¨It is true that conventional corporate finance (and the 
Delaware courts) give primacy to shareholders, and it is not 
because shareholders are a special or protected group, but It 
is becausethey are the only claim holders that do not have a 
contractual claim on the firm; as shareholders you get what's 
left over after contractual claims (wages,interest expenses) 
have been met. 
¨There is of course a notion that managers should be 
accountable to all stakeholders. Stakeholder wealth 
maximization is fanciful in its belief that it is management's 
job to juggle the divergent interests of different stakeholders 
and dangerous insofar as it makes managers accountable to 
everyone, and by extension, to no one.
12
Conflicts of Interests: Consequences
Aswath Damodaran
¨If you are looking at a privately owned business, with a 
sole owner who also runs the business, the interests of 
owners and managers converge, but this is 
theexception, not the rule. 
¤Even in a family-ownedbusiness,where one family member 
runs the business, you can have other family members disagree 
about how it is run, leading to frictions and legal battles. 
¤As businesses seek external capital to grow, either from private 
hands (venture capitalists) or public equity, the divergence 
between the interests of those running businesses and the 
owners of these businesses will increase.
13
Where conflicts of interest are greatest…
Aswath Damodaran
¨If the conflict of interest that is at the heart of corporate 
governance is that between the owners of a business and those 
who manage that business, it will begin when private businesses 
seek out capital from external sources, as founder and venture 
capital interests can diverge. 
¨These conflicts will expand, as companies go first go public, and the 
interests of insiders and founders, who run the firm, can be at odds 
with the interests of outside shareholders. 
¨As companies age, founders will move on and get replaced by 
professional managers, and these managerial interests can clearly 
be at odds with those of shareholders, with boards of directors, in 
theory, watching out for the latter . In short, conflicts of interest 
exist at almost all businesses, though the nature of the conflict will 
change as companies go from private to public, and as they age.
14
Consequences of conflicts of interests..
¨When the interests of decision makers or managers at a 
business diverge from those of its owners, it is inevitable 
that there will be decisions made that advance the 
interests of the former at the expense of the latter . 
¤With private business that access venture capital, founders may 
make decisions (on product design, business models, marketing) 
that venture capitalists may not find to their liking. 
¤With public companies that are run by founders/insiders, the 
decisions made by inside shareholders to advance their interests 
may not align with the interests of outside shareholders.
¤In older public companies, the investing, financing and dividend 
decisions that managers make may by in direct opposition to 
what shareholders would like them to do.
15
Checks on conflicts of interest…
Aswath Damodaran
¨Inprivatefirmswithventurecapitalinvestors,VCinvestors
areoftenactivelyinvolvedinmanagement,and,iftheyhave
thepower,havefewcompunctionsaboutpushingout
founder/managerswhodon’tservetheirinterests.
¨Inpubliccompanies,withinsidersandfoundersincharge,the
onlyrecoursethatoutsideshareholdersoftenhave,ifthey
feeltheirinterestsarebeingignored,istosellandmoveon,
hopingthattheresultingdropinstockpricescausesachange
incourse.
¨Intheory,theboardsofdirectorsatthesecompaniesare
supposedtoprotectshareholderinterests,butthat
protectionissporadicandoftenineffective.
16
Corporate Governance: The Distractions
¨In the aftermath of the Enron and Tyco scandals in the United States, 
where insider-dominated boards were negligent in their oversight 
responsibilities, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was passed in 2002, with 
improved corporate governance as one of its objectives. 
¨At about the same time, you saw the advent of services that used the 
disclosures that companies were required to make on governance to 
estimatecorporate governance scores. 
¨It is clear that twentyyears later that all that Sarbanes Oxley has 
accomplished is replacing ineffective insider-dominated boards with 
ineffective independent boards, while creating hundreds of pages of 
disclosure that no one reads and giving rise to scores that are close to 
useless in judging governance. 
¨With thepush towards diversity in board compositionnow taking 
precedence,this process is hurtling even more into irrelevance, with the 
only positive being that the ineffective boards of the future will meet all 
our diversity criteria.
Aswath Damodaran
17
Corporate Governance and Management 
Change
Source: Honey, I shrunk the ESG alpha
¨ We have toreframe the meaning of good corporate governance, shifting away 
from a board-centered, check-box driven viewto one that is centered on giving 
shareholders the power to change company management, if they choose to. 
¨ In fact, good corporate governance is like a gooddemocracy, where shareholders 
(voters) get the power to change management (governments), when they believe 
that their interests are not being served. 
¤As in a democracy, there is no guarantee that shareholders will make the right or even 
informed choices, sometimeschoosing not to make changes, even when change is 
required, and sometimes deciding to replace good managers with bad ones. 
¤Good corporate governance is sometimes chaotic and often unsettling, and it is no 
surprise that there are many who are drawn to the benevolent dictatorship model, 
where "qualified, well-intentioned managers" are given lifetime tenure, with 
shareholders stripped of the power to challenge them.
¤That latter model was the default for publicly traded companies in much of the world, 
for the twentieth century, and even in the US, you hadmanagerial apologists like Marty 
Liptonand corporate strategists arguing that corporate management would be more 
effective, without shareholder oversight.
18
Management Matches: The Life Cycle
Aswath Damodaran
19
Management Mismatches: The Life Cycle
20
Management Mismatches: Consequences
21
The Life Cycle: Determinants
Aswath Damodaran
22
Tech Companies: Life Cycle Effects
23
Management Mismatches at tech firms
¨With the long life-cycle companies that characterizes the twentieth 
century, companies and managers both aged over time, allowing for 
transitions to occur more naturally. To see, why consider how corporate 
governance played out at Ford, a twentieth century corporate success 
story. 
¤Henry Ford, undoubtedly a visionary, but a crank on some dimensions, was Ford's 
CEO from 1906 to 1945. His vision of making automobiles affordable to the masses, 
with the Model T (but only in black), was a catalyst in Ford's success, but by the end 
of his tenure in 1945, his management style was already out of sync with the 
company. With Ford, time and mortality solved the problem, and his grandson, 
Henry Ford II, was a better custodian for the firms in the decades that followed. 
¤In contrast, consider how quickly Blackberry, as a company, soared, how short its 
stay at the top was, and how steep its descent was, as other companies entered the 
smartphone business. Mike Lazaridis, one of the co-founders of the company, and 
Jim Balsillie, the CEO he hired in 1992 to guide the company, presided over both its 
soaring success, gaining accolades for their management skills for doing so, as well 
as its collapse, drawing jeers from the same crowd. By the time, the change in top 
management happened in 2012, it was viewed as too little, too late
Aswath Damodaran
24
The Investor Surrender
Aswath Damodaran
25
And at Facebook…
26
The Culprits…
1. Market-shareseekingStockExchanges:Formuchofthelastcentury,startingwithadefactobanin
1926andarulein1940,theNewYorkStockExchangebarredcompanieslistedontheexchange
fromfromissuingshareswithdifferentvotingrights,andwithitsdominanceoverUSequity
markets,thatbecametherulefollowedbymostUScompanies.TheAmericanStockExchange
adoptedslightlylooserrules,hopingtogetmarketsharefromtheNYSE,butitwastheNASDAQ
thatthrewcautiontothewindsentirelyandremovedallrestrictionsonvotingandnon-voting
shares.
2. FounderWorshippers:Forthelastfewdecades,wehaveglorifiedthefoundersof
technologycompanies,andwhilethereismuchtoadmireintheiraccomplishments,thereisa
dangerinputtingthemonpedestalsandattributingtothemheroicorsuperhumanqualities.In
thecaseofcompanieslikeGoogleandFacebook,andespeciallysoatthetimeoftheirpublic
offerings,thereweremanyinvestors,includingsomeofthelargestinstitutionalplayers,thatwere
willingtomakethetradeoffofgivinguppowertochangemanagementinreturnforbeing
investedincompaniesrunby"young,techgeniuses".
3. LazyInvestors:Mostofus,asinvestors,chosetogiveawayourvotingrightswillinglybecausewe
wantedsharesofthe"nextbigthing",andatthetimewedidso,werationalizeditbyarguingit
thatwewouldnotneedthatvotingpoweranytimesoon.
4. LaxRegulators:Forsomeofyoureadingthispost,thevillainisgoingtobetheSECand
regulators,withtheargumentbeingthattheycouldhaveprotectedyoubybanningdualclass
shares.
27
Consequences for Corporate Governance at 
Tech Com panies
1. Chaotic Management Transitions: It is true that we have made it more difficult to 
change management at tech companies, even when that change is overdue. That 
said, there will be tech companies where change will occur, but my prediction is 
that this change will often be forced by either insider in-fighting (where co-
founders and insiders turn on each other) or precipitated by a pricing collapse. 
2. Locked-in Mismatches: There are other techcompanies where the game has been 
so thoroughly tilted in favor of insiders and incumbent management that change 
is impossible. In these companies, as an outside investor, you have tobuild that 
reality into your valuations, leading to discounts to your value that reflect how 
much you trust management. In short, if management has adopted policies that 
are value-destructive, in the long term, there will be a much smaller chance of 
reversal at companies with locked-in management than at companies where 
change remains possible.
3. VotingShare/Non-votingShares:Whentechcompaniesgopublic,itisentirely
possiblethattherewillbeahoneymoonperiod,perhapsevenanextendedone,
whereinvestorsaredazzledbyscalingsuccessesandarewillingtooverlook
shortcoming,whenshareswithdifferentvotingrightstradeatthesimilarprices.
Asdisillusionmentsetsin,Iwouldexpectvotingsharepremiumstorise,andto
risemoreatthosefirmswhereinvestorstrustmanagerstheleast.
