Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/MktTiming2025.pdf

The Impossible Dream!
§In 1996, Alan Greenspan use the words "irrational exuberance" to 
describe the stock market, and those words not only became the 
title of Robert Shiller's cautionary book on market bubbles, but 
also the beginnings of the belief that central bankers had the 
wisdom to be market timers and the power to bend the economy 
to their views. 
§I was reminded of Greenspan's words when I read that Jerome Powell, 
the current Fed chair, had described the market as "fairly highly 
valued". 
§For much of this year, and especially since April, the question that 
market observers and investors have is whether stocks, especially in 
the United States, are pushing into “bubble” territory and headed for a 
correction. 
§I think that Powell is right in his assessment that stocks are richly 
priced, but that said, I will try to explain why making the leap into 
concluding that stocks are in a bubble, and acting on that 
conclusion are much more difficult to do.
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
Based on market cap at the start of 2025
Based on Price to Book at start of 2025
Based on % Price Change in 2024
Aswath Damodaran 7
Aswath Damodaran 8
§It is undeniable that this market is richly priced on every 
metric, from PE ratios to the earnings yield, net of treasuries, to 
intrinsic value measures like the equity risk premium, thus 
providing backing for Powell's "fairly highly valued" market. 
§If you trust in mean reversion to historical averages, it seems 
reasonable to conclude that stocks are in fact overpriced, and 
due for a correction. 
§In this section, we will examine why, even if you come to this 
conclusion, it is difficult to convert it into action and more 
importantly actions that generate profits.
1.Do nothing: The essence of being a non-market timer is that you do not alter any 
aspect of your portfolio to reflect your market views. 
2.Hold on to/ build cash holdings: For the most part, you match what you would have 
done in the do nothing response in terms of overall asset allocation mix and 
holdings, but you not only put your portfolio hold-ins into cash (treasury bills, 
money market funds) but when you act, it will be more likely to be selling and 
existing holding (that you view as over valued) than buying a new one. 
3.Change asset allocation mix: In this response, you revisit your preferred asset 
allocation mix, which was set based on your age, cash needs and risk aversion, and 
alter it to reflect your market timing views. Thus, if you believe that stocks are 
overpriced, but you view bonds as fairly or even under priced, you will decrease 
your allocation to the former and increase your allocation to the latter . 
4.Buy protection: You can buy puts on the index or sell index futures, if you think 
equities are overpriced, and benefit from the fact that these derivatives will make 
you money, if there is a correction.
5.Make leveraged bets of market correction: The most aggressive way to take 
advantage of market timing is to make leveraged bets on market correction, using 
either derivatives markets (puts or futures) or selling short on either all of the stocks 
in an index, or a subset of the most overpriced.
1.Choose the pricing metric: As noted in the last section, this can be the percentage 
increase in stock prices over a recent period, the current or normalized pricing ratio 
(PE, PBV, EV to EBITDA) or the equity risk premium/intrinsic value for the index.
2.Create your action rule: The action rule specifies the threshold for the metric, where 
you will act on your market timing. You could, for instance, decide that you will 
increase your equity exposure if the PE ratio is more than 25% below the median 
value for the market's PE ratios over the previous 25, 50 or 100 years, and reduce 
your equity exposure if the PE ratio is more than 25% higher than the median value 
over the period. Note that the trade off on setting the threshold is that setting it to 
a larger value (say 50%) will create a more conservative timing strategy, but one 
where there is less timing action response.
3.Choose your market timing response: You specify how much your will increase or 
decrease your equity exposure in response to the market timing signal. Thus, if you 
have base asset allocation mix of 60% equities, 40% bonds, you can decide that if 
your threshold (from step 2) is breached, and the PE ratio drops by more than 25% 
below the median, your equity exposure will increase (decrease) to 80% (40%) and 
your bond exposure reduced (increased) to 20% (60
§I describe myself as someone who does not time markets, and 
while that is not quite true, the reason is not that markets cannot 
be valued or that I don’t have a point of view on whether stocks 
collectively are more likely overpriced or underpriced.
§It is because acting on that belief of market overpricing or 
underpricing does not seem to provide the promised payoff, 
charts and correlations notwithstanding.
§While I do not alter asset allocations or my stock picks 
significantly because of my market view, I do adjust my 
behavior at the margin, holding more of the inflows in my 
portfolio in cash and not being in as much of a hurry to reinvest 
cash that I get from selling stocks that I believe have hit their 
past due dates.
