Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/IntRateValue.pdf

INTERESTRATES AND VALUE
Ifratesgoup,stocks go ?
2
Interest rates take center stage…
¨ The first quarter of 2021 has been, for the most 
part, a good time for equity markets, but there 
have been surprises. 
¤ The first has been the steep rise in treasury rates in the 
last twelve weeks, as investors reassess expected 
economic growth over the rest of the year and worry 
about inflation. 
¤ The second has been a shift within equity markets, a 
"rotation" in Wall Street terms, as the winners from last 
year underperformed the losers, raising questions about 
whether this shift is a long termshift or just a short term
adjustment.
3
InterestRates: Long Term Perspective
4
Interest Rates in 2021
5
TheFed’s Role
6
Lookingforward…
¨As for rates for the rest of the year, you may draw comfort from the Fed's 
assurances that it will keep rate low, but I don't. Put bluntly, the only rate 
that the Fed directly sets is the Fed Funds rate, and while it may send 
signals to the market with its words and actions, it faces two limits.
¤One is that the Fed Funds rate is currently close to zero, limiting the Fed's capacity 
to signal with lower rates.
¤The second and more powerful reason is that the only reason that a central bank is 
able tosignal to markets is if it has credibility, since the signal is more about what 
the Fed sees, using data that only it might have, about inflation and real growth in 
the future. Every time a Federal Reserve chair or any of the FOMC members make 
utterances that undercut that credibility, the Fed risks losing even the limited 
signaling power it continues to have.
¨In particular, the Fed's own assessments of real growth of 6.5% for 2021 
and inflation of 2.2% for the year are at war with its concurrent promise 
that it will keep rates low; after all, the intrinsic riskfree rate is 8.7%, 
based on those numbers.
7
TheEquities Story in 2021
8
Divergence across sectors
9
Value vs Growth (A Lazy Categorization)
10
Interest Rates and Value
11
Drivers of Interest Rates
Higher real growth Higher inflation
Riskfree Rate Riskfree rate will rise. Riskfree rate will rise.
Risk premia
No effect or even a decrease. Risk premia may rise as inflation increases, 
because higher inflation is almost always more 
volatile than low inflation.
Revenue Growth Increases with economic growth, and 
more so economy-dependent companies
Increases, as inflation provides a backdraft 
adding to existing real growth.
Operating Margins
Increases, as increased consumer 
spending/demand allows for price 
increases
For companies with the power to pass through 
inflation to their customers, stable margins, but 
for companies without that pricing power, 
margins decrease.
Investment EfficiencyImproves, as the same investment delivers 
more revenues/profits.
No effect, in real terms, but in nominal terms, 
companies can look more efficient.
Value Effect
More likely to be positive. Investors will 
demand higher rates of return (negative), 
but higher earnings and cash flows can 
more than offset effect.
More likely to be negative. Investors will 
demand higher rates of return (negative), and 
while revenue growth will increase, lower 
margins will lead to lagging earnings.
12
StockReturns and Rates: History
13
Intrinsic PE: S&P 500
14
Explaining and looking forward
¨This should provide some insight into both why the equity market 
has been able to maintain its upward trend in the face of rising 
rates as well as the periods of whiplash, when stocks have sold off. 
¨For the most part, the primary story driving interest rates, for much 
of 2021, has been one of economic resurgence, and it does not 
surprise me that the positives have outweighed the negatives. 
¨At the same time, there is concern that inflation might be lurking 
under the surface, and on days when these worries surface, the 
market is much more susceptible to melting down. 
¨My guess is that this dance will continue for the foreseeable future, 
but as economic reports come out on both real growth and 
inflation, one or other point of view will get vindication.
15
TheCorporate Life Cycle and Cash Flows
16
The Corporate Life Cycle and Financial Balance 
Sheet
17
Interest Rate Effects on Value
18
Conclusion
¨This analysis should provide some insight into both why the equity 
market has been able to maintain its upward trend in the face of 
rising rates as well as the periods of whiplash, when stocks have 
sold off. 
¨For the most part, the primary story driving interest rates, for much 
of 2021, has been one of economic resurgence, and it does not 
surprise me that the positives have outweighed the negatives. 
¨At the same time, there is concern that inflation might be lurking 
under the surface, and on days when these worries surface, the 
market is much more susceptible to melting down. 
¨My guess is that this dance will continue for the foreseeable future, 
but as economic reports come out on both real growth and 
inflation, one or other point of view will get vindication. 
¨And for those who count inflation out, or underestimate its impact, 
I wish you the good fortune of never living withitsthreat.
