Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr24/session17slides.pdf

CORPORATE FINANCE
LECTURE NOTE PACKET 2
CAPITAL STRUCTURE, DIVIDEND 
POLICY AND VALUATION
AswathDamodaran Spring 2024
Aswath Damodaran 1
CAPITAL STRUCTURE: THE 
CHOICES AND THE TRADE OFF
“Neither a borrower nor a lender be”
Someone who obviously hated this part of corporate finance
Aswath Damodaran 2
3
First principles
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
The Choices in Financing
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
Global Patterns in Financing… 
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
And a much greater dependence on bank loans 
outside the US…
Aswath Damodaran
6
¨In broad terms, borrowing can come from banks/lenders or 
from issuing corporate bonds. 
¨In the United States, companies have had more access to 
corporate bonds than companies in other markets. 
¤That access which initially started for larger companies expanded to 
cover smaller ones.
¤In the 1980s, Mike Milken opened up the bond market to issuers who 
had below investment grade ratings with the junk bond market.
¨In the last two or three decades, bond markets have opened 
up for companies in the rest of the world as well.
¨As a borrower, with a choice of issuing corporate bonds or 
raising bank loans, why might you pick one over the other?
7
Assessing the existing financing choices: Disney, 
Vale, Tata Motors, Baidu& Bookscape
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
9
The Transitional Phases..
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨The transitions that we see at firms –from fully owned 
private businesses to venture capital, from private to public 
and subsequent seasoned offerings are all motivated 
primarily by the need for capital. 
¨In each transition, though, there are costs incurred by the 
existing owners:
¤When venture capitalists enter the firm, they will demand their fair 
share and more of the ownership of  the firm to provide equity.
¤When a firm decides to go public, it has to trade off the greater access 
to capital markets against the increased disclosure requirements (that 
emanate from being publicly lists), loss of control and the transactions 
costs of going public.
¤When making seasoned offerings, firms have to consider issuance 
costs while managing their relations with equity research analysts and 
rat
10
Measuring a firm’s financing mix …
Aswath Damodaran
10
¨The simplest measure of how much debt and equity a firm is 
using currently is to look at the proportion of debt in the total 
financing. This ratio is called the debt to capital ratio:
Debt to Capital Ratio = Debt / (Debt + Equity)
¨Debt includes all interest bearing liabilities, short term as well 
as long term. It should also include other commitments that 
meet the criteria for debt: contractually pre-set payments 
that have to be made, no matter what the firm’s financial 
standing.
¨Equity can be defined either in accounting terms (as book 
value of equity) or in market value terms (based upon the 
current price). The resulting debt ratios can be very different.
11
The Financing Mix Question
Aswath Damodaran
11
¨In deciding to raise financing for a business, is there 
an optimal mix of debt and equity?
¤If yes, what is the trade off that lets us determine this 
optimal mix?
nWhat are the benefits of using debt instead of equity?
nWhat are the costs of using debt instead of equity?
¤If not, why not?
¨To answer this question, you have to decide what 
you are optimizing first, and in corporate finance, 
that is firm value.
12
The Illusory Benefits of Debt
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
Costs and Benefits of Debt
Aswath Damodaran
13
¨Benefits of Debt
¤Tax Benefits: The tax code is tilted in favor of debt, with interest 
payments being tax deductible in most parts of the world, while 
cash flows to equity are not.
¤Adds discipline to management: When managers are sloppy in 
their project choices, borrowing money may make them less so.
¨Costs of Debt
¤Bankruptcy Costs: Borrowing money will increase your expected 
probability and cost of bankruptcy.
¤Agency Costs: What’s good for stockholders is not always what’s 
good for lenders and that creates friction and costs.
¤Loss of Future Flexibility: Using up debt capacity today will mean 
that you will not be able to draw on it in the future.
14
Tax Benefits of Debt
Aswath Damodaran
14
¨When you borrow money, you are allowed to deduct interest 
expenses from your income to arrive at taxable income. This 
reduces your taxes. When you use equity, you are not 
allowed to deduct payments to equity (such as dividends) to 
arrive at taxable income.
¨The dollar tax benefit from the interest payment in any year is 
a function of your tax rate and the interest payment:
nTax benefit each year = Tax Rate * Interest Payment
nThe caveat is that you need to have the income to cover interest 
payments to get this tax benefit.
¨Proposition 1: Other things being equal, the higher the 
marginal tax rate of  a business, the more debt it will have in 
its capital structure.
15
The Effects of Taxes
Aswath Damodaran
15
¨You are comparing the debt ratios of real estate 
corporations, which pay the corporate tax rate, and 
real estate investment trusts, which are not taxed, 
but are required to pay 95% of their earnings as 
dividends to their stockholders. Which of these two 
groups would you expect to have the higher debt 
ratios?
a.The real estate corporations
b.The real estate investment trusts
c.Cannot tell, without more information
16
Tax Law and Debt
¨At the end of 2017, the United States had one of the 
highest marginal corporate tax rates in the world (about 
40%). Most companies had effective tax rates well below 
this, with the average effective tax rate closers to 22%. 
Which tax rate drives the tax benefit of debt and why?
a. Marginal tax rates
b. Effective tax rates
¨At the end of 2017, a tax reform act passed Congress and 
became law, lowering the federal corporate tax rate from 
36% to 21%? Holding all else constant, what should you 
expect to see happen to debt at US companies?
Aswath Damodaran
16
17
Debt adds discipline to management
Aswath Damodaran
17
¨If you are managers of a firm with no debt, and you 
generate high income and cash flows each year, you tend 
to become complacent. The complacency can lead to 
inefficiency and investing in poor projects. There is little 
or no cost borne by the managers 
¨Forcing such a firm to borrow money can be an antidote 
to the complacency. The managers now have to ensure 
that the investments they make will earn at least enough 
return to cover the interest expenses. 
¨It is not the bankruptcy, per se, that makes managers 
disciplined, but the loss of such a job and personal 
wealth.
18
Debt and Discipline
Aswath Damodaran
18
¨Assume that you buy into this argument that debt adds 
discipline to management. Which of the following types 
of companies will most benefit from debt adding this 
discipline?
a. Conservatively financed (very little debt), privately 
owned businesses
b. Conservatively financed, publicly traded companies, 
with stocks held by millions of investors, none of whom 
hold a large percent of the stock.
c. Conservatively financed, publicly traded companies, 
with an activist and primarily institutional holding.
19
Bankruptcy Cost
Aswath Damodaran
19
¨The expected bankruptcy cost is a function of two variables--
¤the probability of bankruptcy, which will depend upon how uncertain 
you are about future cash flows
¤the cost of going bankrupt
ndirect costs: Legal and other Deadweight Costs
nindirect costs: Costs arising because people perceive you to be in 
financial trouble
¨Proposition 2: Firms with more volatile earnings and cash 
flows will have higher probabilities of bankruptcy at any given 
level of debt and for any given level of earnings.
¨Proposition 3: Other things being equal, the greater the 
indirect bankruptcy cost, the less debt the firm can afford to 
use for any given level of debt.
20
Debt & Bankruptcy Cost
Aswath Damodaran
20
¨Rank the following companies on the magnitude of 
bankruptcy costs from most to least, taking into 
account both explicit and implicit costs:
a. A Grocery Store
b. An Airplane Manufacturer
c. High Technology company
21
Agency Cost
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨An agency cost arises whenever you hire someone else to do something 
for you. It arises because your interests(as the principal) may deviate from 
those of the person you hired (as the agent).
¨When you lend money to a business, you are allowing the stockholders to 
use that money in the course of running that business. Stockholders 
interests are different from your interests, because 
¤You (as lender) are interested in getting your money back
¤Stockholders are interested in maximizing their wealth
¨In some cases, the clash of interests can lead to stockholders
¤Investing in riskier projects than you would want them to
¤Paying themselves large dividends when you would rather have them keep the cash 
in the business.
¨Proposition 4: Other things being equal, the greater the agency problems 
associated with lending to a firm, the less debt the firm can afford to use.
