Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CookatApple.pdf

Don’t just sit there, do something!
Not very good advice meted out to CEOs
2
§Through history, we have glorified conquerors and empire 
buildersin politics, civic life and business, from Alexander and 
Genghis Khan to the tech titans of today.  That is no surprise, 
since these individuals have oversized personas and often 
change the course of history, but it is also true that this 
glorification of expansion has shortcomings. 
§The first is the deification of these heroes comes with 
whitewashing of the dark sides and the costs of empire 
building. 
§The second is that we discount and undervalue those who make 
contributions to societal or business advances but do so quietly 
and with little fanfare. 
§It is in this context that I was drawn to the story of Tim Cook 
stepping down as Apple CEO, after a tenure of fifteen years 
atop a company that has been among the top market cap 
companies in the world for much of that period.
3
§To tell Tim Cook's story at Apple, you have to start with the Steve 
Jobs era. Jobs co-founded the company in 1976, with Steve 
Wozniak, and while the company went through a series of CEOs in 
the years after, Jobs was the driving force in the company's early 
years. 
§While it is easy, with the benefit of hindsight, to view these as good 
years for the company, those early years reflected both Job's 
strengths and weaknesses. His vision and force of personality 
gave rise to the personal computer in its current form, as a tool for 
everyone to use, not just tech geeks.
§That said, the dark side of Jobs, manifested in impatience with 
underlings and an obstinate belief that he knew what 
customers needed better than they did, led to theLisa, the only 
Mac I regretted buying almost immediately after my purchase, and 
a loss of business markets to Microsoft. 
§Those failures led Apple to the brink, and to Jobs being cast out 
of the company by its board in 1985, though the CEOs that 
followed had neither the strategic vision nor the business-building 
capacity to rescue the company.
4
§In 1997, Apple looked like it was a company heading into the sunset, as 
Windows became the dominant operating system for personal computers, 
and it seemed like the company had lost its purpose. 
§The August 1997 return of Steve Jobs is now the stuff of legend, as he 
rebuilt Apple back in the ensuing years into a powerhouse, with the 
iPod, the iPad and most of all the iPhone. 
§It is worth asking what the difference wasbetween the first iteration of 
Steve Jobs at Apple and the second iteration of Steve Jobs. 
§The first was thathe was older,and to the extent that with age comes some 
wisdom. 
§The second was that in his period away from Apple, Jobs created and built up 
other companies, with Pixar being the biggest, where he learned to deal with 
people better and perhaps compromise a little more. 
§The third was that he benefited fromthe presence of Tim Cook, first as an 
executive in Apple sales and operations, and more importantly, as chief operating 
officer (COO) for Apple. If Steve's skill was vision, Cook's skill was building 
manufacturing hubs and supply chains to convert the vision to products.
5
§Tim Cook has been CEO for fifteen years, and when he retires 
on September 1, 2026,he will have been the longest serving 
CEO at Apple. 
§It cannot have been easy, especially in the early years, as the 
comparisons to Steve Jobs were front and center, with the critique 
being that Tim was not Steve. 
§To his credit, he never tried to be Jobs, and I do think that he 
created a very different template for himself, one that fit him well 
and was a testimonial to his self assurance. 
§In one of my talks about a decade ago about Apple, I 
described Cook, perhaps harshly , as a man without a 
visionary bone in his body, but one who would make sure that 
the trains ran on time (or the iPhones were delivered as 
promised), and I think that he has used that strength to good 
effect during his years as CEO of the company.
6
7
8
9
10
11
§The first is that while Apple has acquired more than a hundred 
companies,almost all of them are small, private technology 
companies with small price tags, with the intent being 
bringing their products and services into the Apple ecosystem 
after the acquisition. 
§In fact, its largest acquisitions during this century are so 
small that they are almost petty cash, relative to its cash 
balance as a company.
§Given that the ecosystem built to encourage companies to 
acquire other companies is so forceful, this required 
immense discipline on the part of Apple (and Tim Cook, since 
one of the best ploys to get acquisitions on track is to appeal to 
the CEO’s ego..)
12
13
§In sum, looking at the changes at Apple over the last fifteen 
years, the company has changedfrom the growth engine, 
driven by disruptions, in the Jobs years to a mature, cash-
returning and more cautious company under Cook. 
§I have posted more about Apple than about any other 
company in the world (and have been a shareholder in the 
company for significant portions of both the Jobs and Cook 
tenures). 
§I have not always agreed with either man, on choices that 
they have made at the company, but I respected both of them 
enough, to view them as good stewards of my investment.
14
§If you were to create a profile of Tim Cook, the manager, 
based upon the choices that he has made at Apple during his 
tenure as CEO, two very divergent views emerge. 
§To his admirers, his actions on some fronts (initiating dividends, 
massive stock buybacks, borrowing money) and inaction on other 
fronts (no big acquisitions, diffidence on AI investments),represent 
an exercise in discipline and restraint,preserving the 
company's crown jewel (the iPhone) and fending off the bankers 
and consultants, with their deals and promises.
§To his critics, and there are quite a few, Cook's caution has cost 
Apple its disruptor status, when it could have used its ample cash 
reserves to buy its way or invest in into almost every new business 
that has bloomed in the last fifteen years.  In fact, they can point to 
chances that Apple has had to buy some of the biggest stars in the 
market, from Tesla and Netflix more than a decade ago to Anthropic, 
Mistral and Perplexity in more recent years.
15
§It is true that Apple's restraint has led it to miss out on some of 
the biggest trends in technology over the last decade, but it has 
also avoided the overpayment that is so common with high 
profile acquisitions of big companies. 
§The argument that Apple would be worth a lot more today if it had 
bought Netflix or Tesla a decade ago falls flat for two reasons. 
§The first is the selection bias in picking two companies that, in 
hindsight, have emerged as winners, when in fact there were a dozen 
other worse performing companies that were also on Apple's radar. 
§The second is the presumption that even the winning companies 
would have been just as successful, owned by Apple, as they were as 
stand alone enterprises. The clash of corporate cultures that would have 
ensued if Apple had bought either Tesla, a company that reinvents its 
business narrative every few hours, or Netflix, an entity that makes 
content in quantity with the hope that some it sticks, would have been 
epic, with the risk that both Apple and its acquired target would have 
gone down in flames.
16
17
§Viewed in this framework, I would argue that Apple has been lucky 
in its last two CEOs, both in terms of persona and in sequence. 
§When Steve Jobs rejoined Apple in 1997, the company had hit rock 
bottom, and with little to offer in liquidation, his vision allowed for a 
reincarnation, with disruptions leading the way, and as we noted 
earlier in this post, having a strong chief operating officer in Tim Cook 
made the difference. 
§The Apple that Tim Cook inherited, when he became CEO, was a very 
different entity, already the world's largest market cap company, with a 
superlative franchise in the iPhone. In corporate life cycle terms, Apple 
was a mature growth company, and what Cook lacked in opportunism 
, he made up for by defending Apple's biggest product line(iPhone). 
§That said, while each of these men created value for shareholders, I 
don't think that either would be regarded as highly , if you swapped 
their tenures in terms of timing. I don't think Tim Cook would have 
been able to bring Apple from its near-demise to being on top of the 
corporate universe, if he had become CEO in 1997. and I think Steve 
Jobs would have been ill-suited to the Apple that was in existence in 
2011.
18
§Like humans, companies age, but unlike humans,the rates at which 
different companies go through the life cycle can be wildly different. 
Managers and investors who use chronological age as their corporate 
aging metric can misjudge where they are on the life cycle.
§While aging is inevitable for both humans and businesses, some mature or 
even decliningbusinesses can find pathways, either through 
happenstance or management choices to rediscover their youth. These 
businesses become the stuff of legend, and they are the subjects of books 
and business school case studies, and their CEOs are elevated to 
management deities.
§The narratives built around companies that reincarnate and the CEOs atop 
these companies alsofeed into management incentives and 
behavior.In essence, the glorification of CEOs who bet big on 
turnarounds at mature or declining companies, and win, sets up CEOs 
facing similar circumstances to behave like riverboat gamblers, when 
making management choices at their firms. After all, if their bets pay off, 
they join the winner crowd, and if they do not, they contend that they did 
their best, and that circumstances conspired to bring them down.
19
20
§While Tim Cook's time as CEO of Apple is now seen through rose-
colored lens, it is worth remembering that Apple was targeted 
repeated early in his tenure by activist investors. 
§While some of the changes that these activists were pushing 
for were warranted, some were not, and Cook deserves credit 
for not capitulating. 
§Carl Icahn, for instance, wanted Apple to increase its debt substantially, 
borrowing hundreds of billions, but Itook issue with his argument that 
Apple could borrow this money at the low rates that he was 
extrapolating. 
§A couple of years later, David Einhorn made his play, arguing that Apple 
should issue preferred shares with a 4% dividend yield, and Inoted that 
preferred stock could bring with it all of the cashflow commitments of 
debt, with none of the tax advantages. 
§The best defense a management has against activist investors 
is delivering superior performance and returns, and Tim Cook 
delivered on both dimensions, and faced little more than sniping 
from disgruntled investors in his later years as CEO.
21
1. Find your own path: While it may take time, Ternus has to find 
his own path as CEO, based on not only what he brings to the 
table, given his background in computer hardware, but on what 
Apple's strengths are as a company in 2026.
2. Adapt to the company you are managing: When you are at the 
helm of one of the largest market cap companies in the world, 
any new product or service will have to be huge to make a 
dent in the operating metrics (revenues and profits) or market 
capitalization. In addition, the franchise that holds up the 
company's cash machine is the iPhone and Ternus cannot 
afford to take his eyes of that prize. 
3. Keep the feedback loop open:As CEO, Ternus will have advice 
meted to you constantly on what he should or should not do. I 
hope that he takes the market seriously, viewing the market 
price as a crowd judgment on Apple's actions rather than the 
product of speculation.
22
§At Microsoft, there have been two CEO transitions, from Bill 
Gates to Steve Ballmer in 2000, and from Ballmer to Satya 
Nadella in 2014. While Gates built Office and Windows into cash 
cows, and Ballmer preserved them, Nadella created his own 
pathway to reincarnation by building up a cloud business that is 
now the dominant source of revenues for the company. 
§Amazon has seen a management transition, where a legendary 
founder (Bezos) left the firm in 2021, and his successor (Andy 
Jassy) has taken the reins, with remarkably little fanfare. 
§Alphabet offers a case study of a company that tried to split the 
difference, by separating its cash cow (Google advertising) 
from its other businesses, naming Sundar Pichai as its CEO), 
while remaining atop the other Google businesses (the bet in 
Alphabet). That experiment failed insofar as the other businesses 
remained earth-bound and in 2019, Pichai took over as CEO of 
Alphabet as well
§In three of the companies (Tesla, Meta and Nvidia), founders 
remain CEOs, though they bring very different perspectives 
and personalities into their roles.
23
§The fact that all six of these companies have invested heavily in 
AI is a lead-in to what could be the key test for management 
at all of them. 
§If the AI investments pay off and deliver value, Nadella will 
pass into legend status, Jassy will have created his own legacy 
at Amazon, the Alphabet experiment will finally pay off, and the 
founder-run companies will have more room to run. 
§If the AI investments fail, though, Nadella's reincarnation 
reputation will take a hit and Jassy's position atop Amazon will 
be at-risk. The AI failure will also raise doubts about Alphabet's 
capacity to grow beyond advertising and the rumblings about 
Zuckerberg's big bets will get louder, but at these two 
companies, it is unclear what investors, no matter how large 
their holdings are, can do, since they have acquiesced to a 
voting share structure at these two companies that has 
reduced them to bystander status.
24
§While there are many who will compare to Tim Cook to Steve Jobs 
and find him wanting on vision and flair, I am grateful, as an 
investor in Apple, for the restraint and discipline that he 
brought to the job. 
§That gratitude will stay intact even if Apple's caution on AI turns 
out to be a mistake, since the restraint and rectitude that Cook 
brought to his job are qualities that are essential to any well-
functioning economy, but are significantly undervalued. 
§I don't teach from or write cases, but I would love to see more 
business school cases about CEOs like Cook who are not easily 
swayed by the temptation of more growth and ego-driven acquisitions. 
§I loved theSteve Jobs movie, but I don't expect to see a Tim Cook movie 
anytime soon, and while that is understandable, it also explains why we 
will continue to have too many CEOs at companies viewing 
themselves as saviors, gambling shareholder money on 
turnarounds and rescues, when the better pathway would be 
acceptance and shrinkage.
