Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ValueInvesting1.pdf

VALUE INVESTING I: SETTING THE 
TABLE
The Lead In
2
Value Investing: The Winner?
¨ One of the classes that I teach is on investment philosophies, 
where I begin by describing an investment philosophy as a set of 
beliefs about how markets work (and sometimes don't) which lead 
to investment strategies designed to take advantage of market 
mistakes. 
¨ Unlike some, I don't believe that there is a single "best" 
philosophy, since the best investment philosophy for you is the one 
that best fits you as a person. I start with technical analysis and 
charting, move on to value investing, then on to growth investing, 
and end with information trading and arbitrage. 
¨ The most common pushback that I get is from old-time value 
investors, arguing that there is no debate, sincevalue investing is 
the only guaranteed way of winning over the long term.
3
Three Questions
¨ What is value investing and what do you need to do 
to be called a value investor?
¤ There is no consensus even among value investors, other 
than that value investing is buying cheap companies.
¤ Within value investing, there are multiple strands, with 
very different views of how markets work (or do not).
¨ Where does this certitude that value investing is the 
"winningest" philosophy come from? Is it deserved?
¨ How long is the long term, and is it guaranteed that 
value investing wins?
4
What is value investing?
¨ Lazy Value Investing: Let's start with the easiest and most simplistic 
definition, and the one that many data services and academics continue 
to use, simply because it is quantifiable and convenient, and that is to 
base whether you are a value or growth investor on whether the stocks 
you buy trade at low or high multiples of earnings or book value. 
¨ Cerebral Value Investing: Good value investing starts by looking at 
cheapness (PE and PBV) but also includes other criteria such as good 
management, solid moats or competitive advantages and other 
qualitative factors.
¨ Big Data Value Investing: Closely related to cerebral value investing in 
philosophy, investors start with the conventional measures of cheapness 
(low PE and low PBV) but also look for additional criteria that has 
separated good investments from bad ones. Those criteria are found by 
poring over the data and looking at historical returns, a path made more 
accessible by access to huge databases and powerful statistical tools.
5
A different categorization
¨ Passive Value Investing: In passive value investing, you screen for the best stocks 
using criteria that you believe will improve your odds. Once you buy these stocks, 
you are asked to be patient, and in some cases, to just buy and hold, and that 
your patience will pay off as higher returns and a more solid portfolio. 
¨ Contrarian Value Investing : In contrarian value investing, you focus your investing 
energies on companies that have seen steep drops in stock prices, with the belief 
that markets tend to overreact to news, and that corrections will occur, to deliver 
higher returns, across the portfolio..
¨ Activist Value Investing : In activist value investing, you target companies that are 
not only cheap but badly run, and then expend resources (and you need a 
considerable amount of those) to push for change, either in management 
practices or in personnel. The payoff to activist value investing comes from activist 
investors being the catalysts for both price change in the near term, as markets 
react to their appearance, and to changes in how the company is run, in the long 
term.
¨ Minimalist Value Investing :  We have seen the rise of titled index funds and ETFs, 
where you start with an index fund or ETF , and tilt the fund/ETF by overweighting 
value stocks (high PE/PBV, for instance) and underweighting non -value stocks.
6
A Financial Balance Sheet Perspective
7
Value Investing Wins: The Story Roots
¨ When stock markets were in their infancy, investors faced two problems. 
¤ The first was that there were almost no information disclosure requirements , and investors had 
to work with whatever information they had on companies, or on rumors and stories. 
¤ The second was that investors, more using to pricing bonds than stocks, drew on bond pricing 
methods to evaluate stocks, giving rise to the practice of paying dividends (as replacements for 
coupons). 
¨ Ben Graham laid the foundations for modern value investing, by formalizing his 
approach to buying stocks and investing in 1934 in Security Analysis , a book that 
reflected his definition of an investment as "one which thorough analysis, 
promises safety of principal and adequate return". Graham's subsequently 
wrote The Intelligent Investor, where he elaborated his more developed 
philosophy of value investing and developed a list of screens, built around 
observable values, for finding under valued stocks.
¨ In 1938, John Burr Williams wrote The Theory of Investment Value , introducing the 
notion of present value and discounted cash flow valuation.
8
The story gets augmented.. Buffett’s role
¨ Buffett, one of Graham’s students at Columbia University, started 
an investment partnership, putting value investing into practice, 
with his own unique twists for his partners.
¤ He dissolved that partnership (famously) in 1969 , arguing that given a 
choice between bending his investment philosophy and finding 
investments and not investing, he would choose the latter . 
¤ These words, in his final letter to partners in May 1969 , more than any 
others have cemented his status in value investing: "I just don't see 
anything available that gives any reasonable hope of delivering such a 
good year and I have no desire to grope around, hoping to "get lucky" with 
other people's money. 
¨ He did allow his partners a chance to receive shares in a struggling 
textile maker, Berkshire Hathaway, and the rest, as they say, is 
history, as Berkshire Hathaway morphed into an insurance 
company, with an embedded closed end mutual fund, investing in 
both public and some private businesses, run by Buffett.
9
And the Berkshire Hathaway payoff
10
Value Investing: The Numbers Roots
¨ If all that value investing had for it were the stories of great value 
investors and their exploits, it would not have the punch that it 
does today, without the help of a numbers strand, ironically driven 
by the very academicsthat value investors hold in low esteem. 
¨ The capital asset pricing model, despised by value investors, also 
was developed in 1964, and for much of the next 15 years, financial 
researchers worked hard trying to test the model. To their 
disappointment, the model not only revealed clear weaknesses, 
but it consistently misestimated returns for classes of stock. 
¤ In 1981, Rolf Banz published a paper, showing that smaller companies (in 
terms of market capitalization) delivered much higher returns , after 
adjusting for risk with the CAPM, than larger companies. 
¤ Over the rest of the 1980s, researchers continued to find other company 
characteristics that seemed to be systematically related to returns, even 
though theory suggested that they should not.
11
The Fama-French Effect
12
With different interpretations..
¨ It is a proxy for missed risk: In their 1992 paper, Fama and French argued 
that companies that trade at low price to book ratios are more likely to be 
distressed and that our risk and return models were not doing an 
adequate job of capturing that risk. They and others who have advanced 
the same type of argument would argue that rather than be a stamp of 
approval for value investing, these studies indicate risks that may not 
show up in near term returns or in traditional risk and return models but 
eventually will manifest themselves and cleanse the excess returns. Put 
simply, in their world, value investors will look like they are beating the 
market, until these unseen risks show up and mark down their portfolios.
¨ It is a sign of market inefficiency: During the 1980s, as behavioral finance 
became more popular, academics also became more willing to accept and 
even welcome the notion that markets make systematic mistakes and that 
investors less susceptible to these behavioral quirks could take advantage 
of these mistakes. For these researchers, the findings that low price to 
book stocks were being priced to earn higher returns gave rise to theories 
of how investor irrationalities could explain these returns.
13
The End Result
¨ When valuing companies, I talk about how value is a bridge 
between stories and numbers, and how the very best and 
most valuable companies represent an uncommon mix of 
strong stories backed up by strong numbers. 
¨ In the realm of investment philosophies, value investing has 
had that unique mix work in its favor, with stories of value 
investors and their winning stocks backed up by numbers on 
how well value investing does, relative to other philosophies. 
¨ It is therefore no surprise that many investors, when asked to 
describe their investment philosophies, describe themselves 
as value investors, more because it has been historically 
viewed as not just a winning philosophy, but one with 
intellectual and academic backing for its successes than due 
to any loyalty or adherence to its core principles.
