Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2022.pdf

DATA UPDATE 2 FOR 2022: A 
WINNING YEAR FOR STOCKS, 
BUT…
Looking back and forward…
2
Déjà vu!
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨Leading into 2021, the big questions facing investors were 
about how quickly economies would recover from COVID, 
with the assumption that the virus would fade during the 
year, and the pressures that the resulting growth would put 
on inflation. 
¨In apost at the start of 2021, I argued that while stocks 
entered the year at elevated levels, especially on historic 
metrics (such as PE ratios), they were priced to deliver 
reasonable returns, relative to very low risk free rates (with 
the treasury bond rate at 0.93% at the start of 2021). 
¨At the start of 2022, it feels like Groundhog Day, with the 
same questions about economic growth and inflation 
looming for the year, and the same judgment about stocks, 
i.e., that they look expensive.
3
The Year that was.. For the market
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Putting in historical context…
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
Ranking 2021…
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨Looking at the 94 years in this dataset, the returns in 
2021 would have ranked 20th on the list, good, but 
not exceptional.
6
US Stocks: By sector
7
US Stocks: By PE Ratio Classes
8
US Stocks: By Age
9
Beyond the US: Geographical Breakdown
10
The Price of Risk in Equity Markets
11
ERP on January 1, 2022
12
Implied ERP through 2022.. And in 2021
13
Again, historical context…
14
A different historical perspective…
15
A Market Assessment
¨If you look at history, it seems difficult to argue against the 
notion that market timing is the impossible dream, but that 
have never stopped investors from trying, partly because the 
payoff from being right is immense. 
¨I have long claimed that I am not a market timer, but that is a 
lie, since every investor times markets, with the difference 
being in whether the timing is implicit (with cash holdings in 
your portfolio increasing, when you feel uneasy about 
markets, and decreasing, when you feel bullish) or explicit 
(where you actively bet on market direction). 
¨Rather than just give you an estimate of whether I think the 
market is under or over valued, I will open the process up for 
each of you to make your own judgments, while also offering 
my own.
16
S&P 500 Earnings: History
17
S&P 500: Earnings Forecasts (Analysts)
18
S&P 500: From earnings to cash flow
19
Risk free Rates and ERP
¨On the risk free rate, Istart with 1.51%, the 10-year treasury bond rate on 
January 1, 2022, but I will assume that this rate willdrift upwards over the 
next fiveyears to reach 2.5%. That reflects my view that inflation 
pressures will push up long term rates in theyear to come and has little to 
do with what the Fed may or may not do with the Fed funds rate. 
¨Finally, I willbuild in the expectation that a fair ERP for the marketshould 
be 5%, higher than the long-term historical average of 4.21%, but closer 
to the average ERP since 2008.
20
Valuing the Index
21
In conclusion…
¨As with any valuation, I don't believe that Ishould, convince 
you that my valuation is the right one, and nor do I want to. 
In fact, I know that it iswrong, with the question being in 
what direction.
¨I would strongly encourage you to take my valuation, change 
the numbers that I have used on earnings, cash flows, the risk 
free rate and the equity risk premium to reflect your views, 
and come up withyour assessment of value.
¨Good investing requires taking ownership of your investment 
decisions, and trusting this choice to talking heads on TV, 
market strategists at investment banks or those market gurus 
who looked good last year is a dereliction of investment duty.
