Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/LyftIPO.pdf

LYFTING OFF? THE FIRST RIDE 
SHARING IPO!
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Opening Salvo
¨ Last week, Lyft became the first of the ride sharing 
companies to announce plans for an initial public 
officering, filing its prospectus. 
¨ It is definitely not going to be the last, but its fate in 
the market will not only determine when Uber, Didi, 
Ola and GrabTaxiwill test public markets, but what 
prices they can hope to get.
3
I. The Rise of Ride Sharing
¨ The most impressive statistic, for ride sharing 
companies, is not just the growth in revenues, which has 
been explosive, but also how much it has become part of 
day-to-day life, not just for younger, more tech savvy 
individuals but for everyone. 
¨ While the growth was initially in the United States, ride 
sharing has taken off at an exponential rate in Asia, with 
India (Ola), China (Didi) and Malaysia (GrabTaxi) all 
developing home grown ride sharing companies. 
¨ The regulatory push back has been strong in Europe, 
slowing growth, but there are signs that even there,ride 
sharing is acquiring a foothold.
4
Reasons why..,.
1. Status Quo stunk: The taxi business in the 2009 had changed little 
in decades, refusing to incorporate advance in technology and 
shifting tastes. 
2. Regulatory arbitrage: In most cities, rules and regulations that 
were throwbacks in time or lobbied for by special interests 
handicapped taxi operators and gave ride sharing companies, not 
bound by the same rules, a decisive advantage. 
3. Excess Capacity: Automobiles are underutilized resources for the 
most part, since most cars sit idle for much of the day, and ride 
sharing companies took advantage of excess capacity, by letting 
car owners monetize it. 
4. Underpriced drivers: Individuals often under price their time and 
do not factor in long term costs in their decision making and the 
ride sharing companies have exploited that irrationality.
5
The Bad News
¨ While revenues have come easily, the companies have 
struggled with profitability, reporting huge losses as they 
grow. 
¤ Lyft reported losses of $911 million in 2018, in its prospectus, 
but Uber's loss was $1.8 billion during 2018, Didi almost 
matched that with a $1.6 billion loss and the only reason that 
Ola and GrabTaxi lost less was because they were smaller . 
¨ While some of this can be attributed to growing pains, 
that will ease as these companies age and grow bigger, a 
significant portion of the profitability shortfall can be 
attributed to how these businesses are designed. The 
low capital intensity and drivers as contractors model 
made growth so easy but has made profitability difficult.
6
II. The Playing Field Today
¨ I argued, with tongue only half in cheek, that one 
possible model for the ride sharing companies to 
develop sustainable businesses was the Mafia's mostly 
successful attempt to stop intrafamily warfare in the 
1930s by dividing up New York city among five families, 
giving each family its own fiefdom to exploit. 
¨ It is interesting that in the years since, Uber has 
extricated itself from China, leaving that market to Didi, 
in return for a 20% stake in the company and then from 
South East Asia, in return for a share of GrabTaxi. 
¨ In fact, the United States may be the most competitive 
ride sharing market in the world, with Uber and Lyft 
going head-to-head in most cities.
7
Uber versus Lyft
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ While Uber and Lyft are ride sharing companies, their 
evolution over the last decade offers a fascinating 
contrast in business models, for young companies. 
¤ Uber was the "big story" company, telling investors that it 
wanted to be in all things logistics, expanding into delivery and 
moving, and all over the world. 
¤ Lyft was the "focused story" company, setting itself apart from 
Uber by keeping its business in the United States and staying 
with car service, as its primary business. 
¨ I argued in 2015, that given how the two companies 
were priced, I would rather be an investor in Lyft than 
Uber.
8
Since 2015…
¨ While Uber's bigger story gained it a much higher 
pricing from investors, it has also brought the 
company a whole host of troubles, ranging from 
being a target for regulators to management over 
reach. 
¨ Lyft has stayed true to its US and car service focus, 
and it has paid off in a higher market share in the 
market. 
¨ Both companies have jumped on the bike and 
scooter craze, with Uber buying Jump and Lime and 
Lyft acquiring Motivate.
9
III. The Lyft Valuation - Story
¨ It will stay a US transportation services company : The total market that I assume 
for US transportation services is $120 billion at the moment, well over two and a 
half times larger than the taxi cab market was in 2009. 
¨ In a growing transportation services market : Ride sharing will continue to draw 
new customers, from mass transit users to self-drivers, causing the 
transportations services market to double over the next ten years.
¨ With strong market-wide networking benefits : I see only two or three ride sharing 
companies dominating the US ride sharing market, in steady state. In my story, I 
see Lyft as one of the winners, with a 40% market share of the US transportation 
services market.
¨ A sustained share of Gross Billings : Lyft, in 2018, reported revenues of $2,156 
million on gross billings of $8.054 million, working out to a 26.77% share. I will 
assume that as Lyft continues to grow and offers new services, this number will 
revert back to 20%.
¨ And a shift to drivers as employees : As the number who work for ride sharing 
companies rises into the millions, s tates are already starting to push back, and in 
my view, it is only a matter of time before ride sharing companies are forced to 
deal with drivers as employees, causing operating margins in steady state to drop 
to 15%.
10
Loose Ends
¨ Cost of capital: I will take a short cut and give Lyft the cost of capital of 
9.97%, at the 75th percentile of all US companies at the start of 2019 , and  
assume that this cost of capital will drift down towards the median of 
8.24% for all US companies as Lyft becomes larger and profitable.
¨ Sales to capital: I will assume revenues of $2.50 for every dollar of capital 
invested, in keeping with what you would expect from a technology 
company.
¨ Failure rate: Given that Lyft continues to lose money, with no clear 
pathway to generating profits, I will assume that there is a 10% chance 
that Lyft will not survive as a going concern .
¨ Share Count: Lyft posits that it will have 240.6 million shares outstanding, 
including both the class A shares that will be offered to the public and the 
class B shares, with higher voting rights, but I will count deep in the 
money options and RSUs, to arrive at a total share count is 279.03 million .
12
IV . Lyft - Pricing
¨ When the stock opens for trading on the offering day, it 
is not value that will determine the opening bid, but 
pricing. In the pricing game, investors look at what 
others are paying for similar companies, scaling to some 
common operating variable. With Lyft, investors will face 
two challenges.
¤ The first is that it is the first ride sharing company to list, and the 
only pricing that we have for other ride sharing companies is 
from venture capital rounds that are sometimes dated (from the 
middle or early last year).
¤ The second is that every company in the ride sharing business is 
losing money and the book values have no substance.
13
But they will try anyway
14
Pricing Lyft
15
And there will be feedback..
¨ I think of pricing as a ladder, where if you move one rung of 
the ladder, all of the other rungs have to move as well. 
¤ If investors price Lyft at $25 billion, about 12 times its revenue in 2018, 
Uber will be quicker to go public and will expect markets to attach a 
pricing in excess of $130 billion to it, given that its revenues were more 
than $11 billion in 2018. 
¤ If investors price Lyft at only $12 billion, Uber may be tempted to wait 
to go public, and continue to tap into private investors, with the caveat 
being that those investors will also lower their pricing estimates. 
¨ The Asian ride sharing companies, where rider numbers are 
high, relative to revenues, will try to market themselves on 
rider numbers, though it is not clear that investors will buy 
that pitch. 
¨ The pricing ladder can lead prices up, but they can also lead 
prices down, and timing is the name of the game.
16
The Waiting Game
¨ While some of the uncertainties will not be resolved in 
the near future, we will learn more specifics about the 
offering itself, including the amount that Lyft plans to 
raise on the offering day, over the next few weeks. 
¨ Sometime soon, we will also get the a pricing of the 
company from the bankers that have been given the task 
of taking the company public. 
¤ The bankers' job is to price the company for the IPO, not value it. 
¤ Not only should any talk of value from them be discounted, but 
if you do see a discounted cash flow valuation from a bank for 
Lyft, you can almost bet that it will be a Kabuki valuation, where 
they will go through the motions of estimating valuation inputs, 
when the ending number has been pre -decided.
