Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaJan2023.pdf

TESLA,AREVISIT!A RETURN TO 
EARTH OR A GREAT UNRAVELING
Down, but not out?
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
Back to Tesla!
¨There are a few companies that I value, and revalue, over and over 
on this platform, and there are many reasons why. 
¤One reason is that I find them to be interesting, and interesting companies 
are much more fun to value than boring ones. 
¤Another is that in the course of valuing these companies, there are insights 
to be gained into business and valuation, in general. 
¨I have been wrong, and sometimes hopelessly so, in some of my 
earlier valuations of Tesla, but that does not stop me from trying 
anew.  It is also true that Tesla is a company that attracts strong 
and very divergent views, and as a consequence
¤I get more pushback on valuations of Tesla than on any other company, but 
as in last few attempts with this company, I have structured my valuation 
to allow you to incorporate your disagreement. 
¤My last valuation of T esla was in November 2021, towards its market peak, 
and given its steep fall from grace, in conjunction with Elon Musk's Twitter 
experiment, it is time for a revisit.
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨2
3
Tesla: The Auto BusinessDisruptor!
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Tesla: Net Income and EPS
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
My Tesla Valuation Mistakes!
¨ Myfirst valuation of Tesla was in 2013, and I found the company significantly 
overvalued then, and in hindsight, there were three errors that I made in that 
valuation that I systematically found myself repeating in my early valuations.
¤ Growth potential: I under estimated the company's capacity to grow, by limiting its product 
reach. In my 2013 valuation, I estimated the potential revenues by assuming that Tesla was 
more luxury than mass-market automobile, giving it revenues of $64 billion in steady state. In 
fact, in my most recent valuations, I have assumed that Tesla will not only become a mass-
market automobile company over time, but that it will have a dominant market share of the 
electric car portion of that business.
¤ Product characteristics: In my early valuations, I viewed Tesla cars as automobiles first and 
foremost, leading me towards operating margins more suited for a manufacturing company, 
i.e., single digit values or, at best, just barely double digits. While the experiment is ongoing, it 
is clear to me that an electric car is both an automobile and an electronic product, with 
software becoming an integral part. 
¤ Reinvestment needs: The automobile business has always been capital intensive, with 
companies needing to invest large amounts in new factories to be able to deliver on growth. 
Having watched T esla reinvest and grow over the last few years, it is clear to me that the 
company's been able to generate its growth with far less money invested in plant and more in 
technology and R&D than a typical auto company. 
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨5
6
And history…
¨It was this combination of changes thatled me to find Tesla to be under 
valued in June 2019, in the aftermath of Musk's "funding secured" fiasco 
and stories of cars being built in tents since the company was running out 
of capacity in its plants. I did buy the stock at the time of that post, and 
luck was my ally since I caught it at its bottom ($180 per share in 2019 or 
$12 per share in today terms), though I didsell the shares in January 
2020, after the price more than quadrupled.
¨I clearly timed my sale wrong, because right after my sale, COVID hit and 
the company used its adaptability to take advantage of tumultuous times. 
¤The company's stock price soared (reaching $1200/share in 2021 terms and $410 in 
today's terms) in November 2021, and when its market cap breached a trillion, 
Irevisited my Tesla valuation then, using a do-it-yourself (DIY) structure to allow 
readers to disagree. 
¤Pushing every one of my assumptions to its best-case limits, the best I could do was 
arrive at a value ($571) roughly half of what it was trading at then ($1200+), about 
$190/share in current pricing terms. 
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨6
‹#›Aswath Damodaran7
8
TeslaUpdates:TheCompany
¨At the company level, even as earnings reports delivered progress 
towards scaling up and becoming more profitable, there have been 
questions about whether the pathway is becoming more rocky. 
¤First Quarter 2022: Tesla beat analyst estimates for both revenue growth 
and profit margins, but acknowledged COVID-related production problems 
in its Shanghai plant. 
¤Second Quarter of 2022: Tesla reported a slowing of revenue growth to 
25% (from the heated pace of 2021) and a decline in margins that it 
attributed to inflation and competition for EV components. 
¤Third Quarterof2022:Thereportincluded news that revenues would 
come in below analyst estimates, both in dollar value and number of cars. 
¤Fourth Quarter of 2022: The earnings report,delivered yesterday(January 
25) confirmed earlier reports of slow growthand a decrease in profitability 
(gross and operating), due to supply chain problems. In addition, the 
company is anticipating that its pricing cuts will put pressure on future 
margins. 
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨8
9
Tesla Update: The Founder/CEO
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
Tesla Update: The Market
¨The US equity market in January 2023 looks very different 
from the market at the start of 2022. 
¤As I notedin my last post, rising risk free rates and equity risk 
premiums have pushed up the costs of equity for all companies, and 
Tesla is not only no exception but is perhaps even more exposed as an 
above-average risk company. 
¤In short, the cost of capital of 6% that I used in November 2021, higher 
than the median cost of capital of 5.6% for US companies then, no 
longer is defensible, as the median cost of capital has climbed toward 
9.6%.
¨Ingeneral,the risk capital that flowed so easily to the riskiest 
investments in each asset class (young and money-losing 
companies, high yield bonds) has moved to the sidelines, and 
since Tesla was one its leadingbeneficiaries, there are 
consequences.
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨10
11
Tesla Valuation: Updated Inputs
¨ End Revenues: I broughtmy end revenues for Tesla back to $400 billion, still a 
reflection of my view that electric cars will become the dominant part of the auto 
market, and that T esla will have a significant market share. Note that this will still 
give Tesla more revenues than the largest automobile companies in the world, 
and will require that they make a transition, at least on core models, to a mass 
market product (with prices to match).
¨ OperatingMargin:In my November 2021 valuation, Ihadchosenatarget
operatingmarginof16%,higherthanthethen-prevailing margin of 12.06%. In 
2022, Tesla delivered an operatingmarginof16.76%beforecorrecting forR&D,
and18.41% after .
¨ Cost of capital: The cost of capital for Tesla has jumped to 10.15%, reflecting a 
world of higher interest rates and risk premiums. 
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨11
‹#›Aswath Damodaran12
‹#›Aswath Damodaran13
14
A Tesla Action Plan
¨Upside vs Downside: My median value is slightly lower than my 
base case value, mostly because there are more potential upside 
values than downside value. That skew to the upside is now far less 
pronounced than it was earlier in Tesla’s life, reflecting a reduction 
in its optionality. If you are looking for a ten-bagger, Tesla is not 
likely to make thatlist.
¨Valuation Judgment: The median value, at $120, confirms that the 
stock is overvalued, at least based on my estimates at $143. 
¨Stock in play? Unlike in November 2021 or at other points in Tesla's 
life, the stock is very much in play, and anyone who bought the 
stock on December 27, 2022, when the price hit $109, would have 
got a reasonable bargain.  In the aftermath of Tesla's earnings 
report, and the stock is up in the after market, perhaps in reaction 
to the fact that the company beat its earnings per share forecast, 
the least meaningful part of any earnings report.
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨14
15
Investing Lesson 1: Personality-driven 
companies
¨Some of the highest profile corporations in the last decade have 
tied their business stories to their founders, making it difficult to 
separate one from the other . In many cases, this has helped, not 
hurt, these companies, as Jack Ma drew investors and customers to 
Alibaba with his enthusiasm and energy, and no one sold Tesla to 
customers and investors better than Elon Musk. 
¨In both cases, though, we are discovering that there is a downside 
to personality-driven companies, since as human beings, these 
personalities come with good and bad qualities. 
¤There is no doubt in my mind that Elon Musk has enough vision to power a 
dozen companies, but he is also easily distracted, entirely unpredictable 
and sometimes eccentric.
¤That is the package that drew people to the company a dozen years ago, 
when the company was started, that engineered its ascent to trillion-dollar 
market cap status, just a couple of years ago, and is now, at least in the 
eyes of some, weighing down the company.
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨15
16
Investing Lesson 2: The Laws of Business 
catch up..
17
Investing Lesson 3: Everything has become 
political!
¨In the case of Tesla, the politics of the moment are undeniably an 
issue, and I would argue that where your political views will have 
more of an effect on whether you think Tesla is under or over 
valued than any of its operating numbers. 
¨I fall in the muddled middle when it comes to Musk. I believe that 
he is a visionary, not so much because Tesla is at the cutting edge 
of technology, but because he has changed the automobile 
business and our driving choices fundamentally. There are qualities 
that I admire in him, and qualities that I do not, but I think that as a 
society, we are better off with him than without him. 
¨That said, I would like to think that my decisions on whether to buy 
or sell Tesla will be unaffected by my personal views on Musk, but 
that may be just my delusion speaking.
¨Aswath Damodaran
¨17
