Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/SportsFranchises.pdf

TOYSFORBILLIONAIRES: THE 
TROPHY ASSET EFFECT IN 
SPORTS!
A fan’s dreams come true…
2
SportsandMarkets
¨I have always loved sports, playing tennis and cricket when I 
was growing up, before transitioning to fan status, cheering 
for my favored teams from the sidelines. I also like finance, 
perhaps not as much as sports, but there are winners and 
losers in the investment game as well. 
¨It should come as no surprise that when the two connect, as 
is the case when teams are bought and sold, or players are 
signed, I am doubly interested. 
¨The time is ripe now to talk about how professional sports, in 
its many variations around the world, has blown a financial 
gasket, as you see teams sold for prices that seem out of sync 
with their financial fundamentals and players signed on 
contracts that equate to the GDP of a small country.
3
The Sporting Ideal!
¨In its idealistic form, sports is about competition and the 
human spirit, and is divorced from money. That was the ideal 
behind not just theOlympic ban on athletes from being paid 
for performing, but also behindmajor tennis tournaments 
being restricted to just amateurs until 1968and the entire 
collegiate sports scene. 
¨Both restrictions eventually fell, weighted down by hypocrisy, 
since the same entities that preached the importance of 
keeping money out of sports, and insisted that the players on 
the field could not make a living from playing it, engorged 
themselves on its monetary spoils. 
¨At this point, it seems undeniable that sports and money are 
entwined, and that trying to separate the two is pointless.
4
The Story Lines
¨ Playercontracts:Whileplayercontractshavebecomebiggerovertime,the$776
millionofferbyAl-Hilal,aSauditeam,toKylianMbappe,theFrenchsuperstaron
contractwithPSG,foraone-yearcontracttoplaywiththeteamwaseye-popping
inmagnitude.
¨ Sportsfranchisetransactions:In2023,theWashingtonCommanders,anNFLteam
withadecidedlymixedrecordonthefieldandahistoryofcontroversyaroundits
nameandowner,wassoldforover$6billiontoaconsortium,makingitthe
highestpricedsportsfranchisetransactioninhistory.
¨ Sportdisruptions:WhenLIVmadeitsbidbysigningupsomeofthebest-known
golfplayersintheworldtoplayinitstournaments,fewgaveitachanceof
successagainstthePGA,butin2023,itwasthePGAthatconcededthefightin
themoneygame.
¨ Broadcastingupheaval:In2021,wesawtheNFL,therichestfranchiseinthe
world,enterintonewmediacontractstocoverthenextdecadeofbroadcasting
rightsforthesport.Theincreasingimportanceofstreaminginthemediabusiness
wasillustratedwhentheIPL,India’scricketleague,solditsmediarightsforthe
nextfiveyearsfortelevisionbroadcastingtoStarIndia,aDisney-owned
subsidiary,forroughly$3billion,andthestreamingrightsforthesameperiodto
Viacom18,aReliance-controlledjointventure,foraboutthesameamount.
5
Rising Franchise Prices!
Team League Year Price (in $ billions)
Washington Commanders NFL 2023 $6.05
Chelsea Premier League 2022 $5.30
Denver Broncos NFL 2022 $4.70
Phoenix Suns NBA 2023 $4.00
Milwaukee Bucks NBA 2023 $3.50
New York Mets MLB 2020 $2.40
Brooklyn Nets NBA 2019 $2.40
Carolina Panthers NFL 2018 $2.20
Houston Rockets NBA 2017 $2.20
Los Angeles Dodgers MLB 2012 $2.00
6
A long-term trend…
7
NFL Pricing (Forbes)overtime…
8
Pricingacross Franchises…
Cumulative Pricing (in $ mil)Highest PricedLowest Priced
NFL $132,500 $7,640 $4,140
NBA $85,910 $7,000 $1,600
MLB $69,550 $7,100 $1,000
NHL $32,350 $2,200 $450
MLS $16,200 $1,000 $350
Premier League $30,255 $5,950 $145
IPL $10,430 $1,300 $850
9
Publicly traded franchises!
¨There is a subset of sports franchises that are publicly 
traded, but it is a very small one. 
¤Among US sports franchises, the one that comes closes 
isMadison Square Garden Sports, which in addition to owning 
the arena (Madison Square Garden) also owns the New York 
Knicks (NBA) and the New York Rangers (hockey), but it is closely 
held, with the Dolan family firmly in control. 
¤Outside of the US,Manchester Unitedis the highest-profile 
example of a publicly traded company, but it too is closely held, 
with control in the hands of the Glazer family. 
¤There are a few European soccer teams that are publicly traded, 
but they all tend to be closely held, with light liquidity.
¨Question: Why are more sports franchises not more 
widely traded?
10
Price versus Value
11
Investment Classification
12
Trophy Assets
¨There is a sub-grouping of assets, though, that is 
worth carving out and considering differently, and I 
will call thesetrophy assets. 
¨A trophy asset has expected cash flows, and can be 
valued like any other asset, but the people who buy 
it often do so, less for its asset status and more as a 
collectible. 
¨Powered by emotional factors, the prices of trophy 
assets can rise above values and stay higher, since, 
unlike other assets, there is no catalyst that will 
cause the gap between price and value to close.
13
Trophy Assets: Ingredients
1.Emotionalappealoverwhelmsfinancialcharacteristics:Thekeytoa
trophyassetisthatthecoreofitsattraction,topotentialbuyersor
investors,lieslessinbusinessmodelsandcashflows,andmorein
theemotionalappealithastobuyers.Thatappealmaybeonlytoa
subsetofindividuals,butthesebuyerswanttoowntheassetmore
fortheemotionaldividends,notthecashflows.
2.Itisunique:Trophyassetspackapunchbecausetheyareunique,
insofarastheycannotbereplicatedbysomeone,evenifthat
someonehassubstantialfinancialresources.
3.Itisscarce:Fortrophyassetstocommandapricingthatis
significantlyhigherthanvalue,theyhavetobescarce.
4.Itisboughtandheldfornon-financialreasons:Iftrophyassetsare
openedupforbidding,thewinningbidderwillalmostalwaysbean
individualorentitythatisbuyingtheassetmoreforitshistoryor
provenance,notitsfinancialcharacteristics.
14
Trophy Assets: Implications
1. Itwill look over priced, relative to financial fundamentals 
(earnings, revenues, cash flows), and relative to peer group 
assets that do not enjoy the same trophy status. 
2. Evenas price increases relative to value,the mechanism 
that causes the gap to close, often stemming from a 
recognition that the you have paid too much for something, 
given its capacity to generate earnings and cash flows, will 
stop working. After all, if buyers price trophy assets based 
upon their emotional connections, they are entering the 
transaction, knowing that they have paid too much, and do 
not care. 
3. Theforces that cause the prices of trophy assets to change 
from period to period will have aweak or no relationship to 
the fundamentalsthat would normally drive value.
15
Sports Franchises as Trophy Assets
¨Media businesses: The fundamentals are changing, as 
the business of sports franchises shifts away from the 
field to media. They can be valued as businesses, 
though, with this new business model.
¨Disconnect from fundamentals: The pricing of sports 
franchises is disconnected from financial fundamentals, 
and value, and is becoming more so over time.
¨New Owners: There is a new breed of owners ofsports
franchises,and their characteristics make it reasonable 
to assume that they are not buying franchises as 
businesses.
16
1. ChangingBusinessModels
17
Withmediaatitscenter…
18
And rising player costs keeping profitability 
in check…
19
2.Pricing disconnect rising over time…
20
AnExample: Price versusValue-Ballmer 
buys Clippers for $ 2 billion (in 2014)
21
3. The Influx of Billionaire Owners
22
And here’s why…
23
Sports franchises are trophy assets
¨Scarcity: Sports franchises are the ultimate trophy assets, since 
they are scarce and owning them not only allows you to live out 
your childhood dreams, but also gives you a chance to indulge your 
friends and family, with front-row seats and player introductions. 
¨Sovereign Trophies: It also explains the entry of sovereign wealth 
funds, especially from the Middle East, into the ownership ranks, 
especially in the Premier League. 
¨Winner-take-allEconomics:If you couple this reality with the fact 
that winner-take-all economies of the twenty-first century deliver 
more billionaires in our midst, you can see why there is no 
imminent correction on the horizon for sports franchise pricing. 
As long asthe number of billionaires exceeds the number of sports 
franchises on the face of the earth, you should expect to see fewer 
and fewer owners like the Rooneysand more and more like the 
Steves(Cohen and Ballmer).
24
Consequences for Owners
¨For the owners of franchises that are not members of the 
billionaire club, 
¤there will be pressure to cash out, and the key to getting a lucrative 
offer is to increase the team's attraction to potential buyers, as toys. 
¤Adding a high-profile player, even one who is approaching the end of 
his or her playing life, can add to the attraction of a sports team, as a 
trophy, even as it reduces its quality on the field, as is moving to a city 
that a potential buyer may view as a better setting for their expensive 
toy (Oakland A's and San Diego Clipper or Charger fans, take note!). 
¨For billionaire owners of franchises, the reactions to owning 
an expensive toy that does not perform as expected, can 
range from impatience with managers and players, to trades 
driven by impulse rather than sports sense.
25
Consequences for Players
¨As sports franchises become trophy assets, players 
become the jewels that add dazzle to these trophies. 
¤Not surprisingly, the superstars of every sport will be prized even 
more than they used to be, not just for what they can do on the 
field, but for what they can do for an owner’s bragging right. 
¤The recent billion dollar bid for Mbappeand the upcoming 
bidding war for Shohei Ohtanimake sense from this perspective, 
and you should expect to see more mind-glowingly large player 
contracts in the future.
¨To the extent that a player's trophy appeal is as much a 
function of that player's social media presence and 
following, as it is of performance on the field, you 
should expect to see sports players aspire for celebrity 
status.
26
Consequences for Fans
¨If you are the fan of a sports franchise that is owned by someone to 
whom money is no object, you will have much to celebrate, as your 
team chases down and signs the biggest names in the sport. As a 
negative, if your team owner tires of their trophy asset, you may be 
stuck with the consequences of benign (or not so benign) neglect. 
¨If on the other hand, you happen to be a fan of the team that 
continues to be owned by an old-guard owner, intent on running 
the team as a business, you will find yourself frustrated as 
homegrown stars get signed by other teams. 
¨The old divide of rich teams/poor teams that was based on 
unequal media markets or stadium sizes will be replaced with a 
new divide between rich team owners and poorer team owners, 
where the latter still have tomake their teams work as businesses, 
whereas the former do not.
