Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate6for2023.pdf

DATA UPDATE 6 FOR 2023: THE
UPSIDEANDDOWNSIDEOFDEBT
A double-edged sword!
1
2
To borrow, or not to borrow?
¨As investors, businesses and let's face it, as human beings, we have 
a prickly relationship with debt. 
¤While it is a financial decision, it is one that has been assigned moral 
overtones, since almost every religion has inveighed against debt's sins, 
labeling those who lend as sinners and those who borrow as weak. 
¤All that said, businesses around the world have borrowed money though 
time to fund their operations, sometimes for good reasons and sometimes 
for bad, and over time, these businesses have also had cycles of too much 
debt leading to painful cleansing. 
¨In this post, I will focus on corporate debt in 2023, keeping in mind 
that it was a year where the rules seemed to change, as interest 
rates rose to pre-2008 levels, and putting at risk those firms that 
had borrowed to the hilt, at low interest rates, but without the 
earnings capacity to service the higher interest payments, with 
2022 rates.
¨2
3
Debt’s Place in Business
3
4
Good Reasons for borrowing
4
5
Illusory Reasons for Borrowing
¨5
6
The Right Financing Mix
¨6
7
8
Effect on Value
8
¨Ifyoucanseethemechanicsofhowchangingdebtratiochangesthecost
ofcapital,butareunclearonhowloweringthecostofcapitalchangesthe
valueofabusiness,thelinkisasimpleone.
¨As you borrow more, your free cash flows to the firm should remain 
unaffected, in most cases, since they are pre-debt cash flows, and a lower 
cost of capital will translate into a higher value, with one caveat. 
¤As you borrow more and the risk of failure/bankruptcy increases, there is the 
possibility that customers may stop buying your products, suppliers may demand 
cash and your employees may start abandoning ship, creating a death spiral, where 
operating income and cash flows are affected, in what is termed "indirect 
bankruptcy costs". 
¤In that case, the optimal debt ratio for a company is the one that maximizes value, 
not necessarily the one at which the cost of capital is minimized.
9
Adani Enterprise: Optimal Financing Mix?
9
10
Adani Group: Optimal Financing Mix
10
11
Do firms optimize financing mix?
¨11
1. Inertia: In my view, at most companies the key determinant of debt policy, as it is 
of most other aspects of corporate finance, is inertia. In other words, companies 
continue the debt policies that they have used in the past.
2. Me-to-ism: The second and almost as powerful a force in determining debt policy 
is peer group behavior . It is for this reason that debt policy is far more likely to 
vary across industry groups than it is to vary within an industry group.
3. Because lenders are willing to lend me money: There is a final perspective on debt 
that can lead companies to borrow money, even if that borrowing is inimical to 
their own well being, and it is that if lenders offer them the money, you cannot 
turn them away. The "lenders made me do it" excuse for borrowing money is 
about as bad as the "buffet lunch made me overeat" excuse used by dieters, and 
it just as futile, because ultimately, the damage is self inflicted.
4. Control: A growing firm needs capital to fund its growth, and that capital has to
come from equity issuances or new borrowing. When control becoming the 
dominant prerogative for those running the firm, they may choose to borrow 
money, even if it pushes up the cost of funding and increases truncation risk, rather 
than issue shares to the the public (and risk dilution their control of the firm).
12
Measuring Debt Loads: Debt to Capital
12
1.Gross versus Net Debt: The gross debt is the total 
debt owed by a firm, long or short term, whereas 
the net debt is estimated by netting out cash and 
marketable securities from the total debt. 
2.Book versus Market: The book debt ratio is built 
around using the accounting measure of equity, 
usually shareholder's equity, as the value of equity. 
The market debt ratio, in contrast, uses the market's 
estimate of the value of equity, i.e., its market 
capitalization, as the value of equity.
13
14
Debt to Earnings/Cash Flows
14
¨If debt to capital is not a good measure for judging over or 
under leverage, what is? The answer lies in looking at a 
company's earnings and cash flow capacity, relative to its 
debt obligations. The interest coverage ratio is the first of two 
ratios that I will use to measure this capacity:
Interest Coverage Ratio = Earnings before interest and taxes/ 
Interest expenses
¨The second ratio remedies this problem by looking at debt as 
a multiple of EBITDA:
Debt to EBITDA = Total Debt/ EBITDA
The logic behind this measure is simple. The denominator is a measure of 
operating cash flows, prior to a whole host of cash outflows, but a firm 
that borrows too much relative to EBITDA is stretching its capacity to 
repay that debt.
15
16
Most and Least Levered Industry Groups 
(US)¨16
17
Corporate/Business Default: Reasons
¨17
¨ Company-specific: Companies can overreach, borrowingfarmorethanthey
canafford,effectively putting themselves at risk thatifsomething goes 
wrong, they will have to default. In some cases, deteriorating businesses can 
cause default as well, as earnings drop below contractual commitments.
¨ Sector-wide: If disruption is the word that has excited venture capitalists and 
investors across the world for much of this century, it comes with a dark side, 
which is that the disrupted businesses can find themselves with imploding 
business models (shrinking revenues and operating margins under stress).
¨ Macro-driven: The trigger can be a macroeconomic factor, most often a 
recession, that puts pressure on earnings, leaving many companies exposed 
to default. (In 2020, a pandemic accomplished the same objective.)
¨ Interest Rate Dynamics: Finally, companies borrow based upon existing 
interest rates, but if rate change suddenly, debt thatwasaffordable can turn 
unaffordable.
18
US Business Loan Delinquencies over time
¨18
19
Corporate Default Rates over time
¨19
20
The Challenge in 2023: Ratings Downgrade 
a signal?
20
21
AFamiliarDuo: Drivers of Default
21
