Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session1.pdf

SESSION 1: ACCOUNTING FIRST 
STEPS
Accounting for Finance
2
The Accountant’s Role
oIn my view (and many accountants will disagree), it is the 
role of accounting
oTo check transactions and operations, as they occur
oTo record them in a consistent manner
oTo report the results in standardized form
oMuch as accounting wants to makes itself more relevant 
and central to businesses, it is not the role of accounting:
oForecast the future, no matter how tempted.
oValue assets or operations.
oBluntly put, an accountant is a historian, chronicling 
events that have already occurred, not predicting the 
future.
3
The Accounting Questions..
¨What do you own?List out the assets that a business has 
invested in, and how much it spent on those investments 
and perhaps what these assets are worth today.
¨What do you owe? Specify the contractual commitments 
that a business has tomeet, to stay in business. Simply 
put, this should include all borrowings, but is not 
restricted to those.
¨How much money did you make?Measure the 
profitability of the business, both with accounting 
judgments on expenses, and based upon cash in and 
cash out.
4
The Accounting Statements
!The balance sheet, which summarizes what a firm 
owns and owes at a point in time, as well as an 
estimate of what equity is worth (through 
accounting eyes).
!The income statement, which reports on how much 
a business earned in the period of analysis, while 
providing detail on revenues and expenses.
!The statement of cash flows, which reports on cash 
inflows and outflows to the firm during the period of 
analysis and allows for a measure of cash earnings 
(as opposed to accounting earnings) and cash flows.
5
1. Balance Sheet
6
2. Income Statement
Item Explanation
Start with Revenues Accountant's estimate of the revenues/sales generated by 
any transactions made the business during the period.
Net out Cost of Goods Sold Expenses associated with producing products or services that 
represent top line sales
To get Gross Profit Production profitability
Net out Other Operating Expenses Includes selling, general and administrative and other 
expenses associated with operations, but not directly tied to 
producing goods and services
To get Operating Profit Profitability of business
Net out Financial Expenses Expenses associated with the use of non-equity capital, 
especially debt.
To get Taxable Income Income for equity investors, prior to taxes
Net out Taxes Taxes due on taxable income
To get Net Income Income for equity investors, after taxes
7
3. Statement of Cash Flows
8
The Interconnections
9
The Accounting Standards
qAccounting is a rule-driven process, and over time, those rules 
have been formalized, especially for publicly traded companies. 
This formalization is driven by two considerations:
qStandardization, to allow for comparisons across companies
qFirst principles, to ensure that earnings, asset value and cash flows 
measure what they are supposed to measure.
qWhile accounting standards around the world remain different, 
they have converged (for the most part) around two standards:
qGAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles), representing rules 
developed by FASB (Financial Accounting Standards Board) to cover US 
financial reporting.
qIFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards), representing rules 
developed by IASB (International Accounting Standards Board) for 
companies listed globally, followed by about 90 countries as of 2020.
11
The Bottom Line
¨The raw material that we use to do financial analysis 
and valuation almost always takes the form of 
accounting statements.
¨Consequently, it behooves us all to understand how 
accountants think(even if we disagree with them) in 
putting these statements together .
¨The challenge is that accounting thinking keeps 
changing, as we move through time, and we have to 
understand those changes (both the what and the 
why), to keep up with them.
