Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session3atest.pdf

Session	3a:	Post	Class	tests	
1. The	objective	in	corporate	finance	is	to	maximize	firm	value.	In	practice,	this	is	
often	narrowed	down	to	maximizing	the	stock	prices,	for	publicly	traded	firms.	
For	the	two	objectives	to	be	equivalent,	which	of	the	following	assumptions	do	
you	need	to	make?	
a. Bondholders/	Lenders	interests	are	fully	protected	
b. Financial	markets	are	efficient	and	rational	
c. Information	about	the	firm	is	provided	both	timely	and	unbiased.	
d. All	of	the	above	
e. None	of	the	above	
2. In	publicly	traded	firms,	the	managers	are	“hired”	and	“fired”	by	stockholders	
and	one	of	the	mechanisms	used	to	exercise	this	control	is	the	annual	meeting.	
Stockholders	who	are	unable	to	go	to	the	annual	meeting	can	vote	by	“proxy”,	
but	many	of	them	don’t	exercise	that	right.	Barring	a	change	in	the	corporate	
charter,	what	happens	to	these	“unvoted”	proxies	at	most	US	companies?	
a. They	are	not	counted	as	votes	at	the	annual	meeting	
b. There	are	counted	as	votes	against	management	at	the	annual	meeting	
c. They	are	counted	as	votes	for	the	management	at	the	annual	meeting	
d. They	are	split	evenly	for	and	against	management	at	the	annual	meeting	
e. None	of	the	above	
3. In	most	publicly	traded	firms,	institutional	investors	(mutual	funds	and	pension	
funds)	hold	a	significant	proportion	of	the	stock.	Which	of	the	following	
statements	best	characterizes	how		“most”	of	these	investors	behave?		
a. They	are	long	term	investors	who	take	an	active	role	in	how	the	company	
is	run,	pushing	managers	to	put	stockholder	interests	first.	
b. They	tend	to	go	along	with	incumbent	managers	and	if	they	are	unhappy	
with	a	company’s	direction,	they	sell	their	shares.	
4. Which	of	the	following	is	the	primary	mission	of	a	board	of	directors	in	a	publicly	
traded	firm?	
a. To	provide	advice	and	counsel	to	the	top	managers	of	the	firm	
b. To	protect	incumbent	managers	from	stockholder	pressures	and	defend	
them	against	criticism.	
c. To	ensure	that	top	managers	are	acting	in	the	best	interests	of	the	
stockholders	
d. To	protect	society’s	best	interests	
e. None	of	the	above	
5. When	stockholders	have	little	power	over	managers,	managers	put	their	
interests	over	stockholder	interests.	Which	of	the	following	is	a	clear	example	of	
managerial	interests	being	put	ahead	of	stockholder	interests?	
a. Borrow	large	amounts	to	fund	a	firm’s	operations	
b. Don’t	pay	dividends.	
c. Refuse	to	do	acquisitions	
d. Pay	“greenmail”	to	a	hostile	acquirer	
e. Push	stockholders	to	add	anti-takeover	amendments	to	the	corporate	
charter
