Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/country/NarrativeCOVID.pdf

NARRATIVE AND NUMBERS: 
LIGHT IN THE DARKNESS!
When in trouble, go back to basics!
2
The Bermuda Triangle of Valuation
Valuation First 
Principles &
Good SenseBias & Preconceptions
Uncertainty & the Unknown
Complexity & Detail
3
Tesla: What are your priors?
¨ With Tesla, there are no neutral observers. There are 
people who love the company or hate it. Almost no 
one has no opinion on the company. What is your 
prior?
a. I love the company. It will be a trillion dollar company.
b. I hate the company. I think it is a scam
¨ Tesla also happens to be a personality-driven 
company. What you think about Elon Musk will 
mirror what you think about Tesla. What are the 
potential concerns you should have about that 
interleaving of the personal and the corporate?
4
Valuation Uncertainty
What are the 
cashﬂows from 
existing assets?
- Equity: Cashﬂows 
after debt payments
- Firm: Cashﬂows 
before debt payments
What is the value added by growth  assets?
Equity: Growth in equity earnings/ cashﬂows
Firm: Growth in operating earnings/ 
cashﬂows
How risky are the cash ﬂows  from both 
existing assets and growth assets?
Equity: Risk in equity in the company
Firm: Risk in the ﬁrm’s operations
When will the ﬁrm 
become a mature 
ﬁirm, and what are 
the potential 
roadblocks?
5
The sources of uncertainty
¨ Estimation versus Economic uncertainty
¤ Estimation uncertainty reflects the possibility that you could have the “wrong 
model” or estimated inputs incorrectly within this model.
¤ Economic uncertainty comes the fact that markets and economies can change over 
time and that even the best medals will fail to capture these unexpected changes.
¨ Micro uncertainty versus Macro uncertainty
¤ Micro uncertainty refers to uncertainty about the potential market for a firm’s 
products, the competition it will face and the quality of its management team.
¤ Macro uncertainty reflects the reality that your firm’s fortunes can be affected by 
changes in the macro economic environment.
¨ Discrete versus continuous uncertainty
¤ Discrete risk: Risks that lie dormant for periods but show up at points in time.  
(Examples: A drug working its way through the FDA pipeline may fail at some stage 
of the approval process or a company in Venezuela may be nationalized)
¤ Continuous risk: Risks changes in interest rates or economic growth occur 
continuously and affect value as they happen.
6
A Life Cycle View
7
Healthy Valuation
The Numbers People
Favored Tools
- Accounting statements
- Excel spreadsheets
- Statistical Measures
- Pricing Data
Illusions/Delusions
1. Precision: Data is precise
2. Objectivity: Data has no bias
3. Control: Data can control reality
The Narrative People
Favored Tools
- Anecdotes
- Experience (own or others)
- Behavioral evidence
Illusions/Delusions
1. Creativity cannot be quantiﬁed
2. If the story is good, the investment will be.
3. Experience is the best teacher
A Good Valuation
8
The steps in valuation
9
The Drivers of Value
12
The drivers of value
¨ The Growth Lever: The revenue growth rate controls how much and how quickly the firm 
will be able to grow its revenues from autos, software, solar panels and anything else that 
you believe the company. In my Tesla story (valuation), I have estimated revenues of $125 
billion in 2030, a five -fold increase over the 2019 revenues.
¨ The Profitability Lever: The target (pre-tax) operating margin determines how profitable you 
think the company will be, once its growth days start to scale down. In keeping with my view 
that R&amp;D is really a capital expense, I capitalize R&amp;D, which improves Tesla’s 
profitability and target an operating margin of 12% by 2025.
¨ The Investment Efficiency Lever: To grow, companies have to invest in capacity and the sales 
to invested capital drives how efficiently investment is done, with higher sales to capital 
ratios reflecting more efficiency. With T esla, I assume that every dollar of investment (in new 
factories, technology and new R&amp;D) in the first 5 years generates $3 in revenue.
¨ The Risk lever: The first is the cost of capital that I start the valuation with, a reflection of 
risk as seen through the eyes of a diversified investor in the company. The second is 
the likelihood of failure (or distress). With Tesla, I set this cost of capital at 7% and assume 
that given its marginal profitability and significant debt load, the chance of failure is 10%.
13
The Growth Lever
14
The Biggest Auto Companies
15
A tech company twist?
16
Your growth choice
17
The Profitability Lever
18
A tech twist?
¨ The median operating margin for tech companies 
(including both software & hardware is 10.25%).
¨ The picture is brighter for the FAANG stocks, where 
the aggregate operating margin across all five stocks 
is 19.87%, well above auto industry averages. That 
margin, though, is delivered on smaller revenues and 
with business models where production costs are a 
small fraction of selling prices.
¨ The operating margin for just software companies is 
even higher at 21.24%, because the marginal unit of 
software is close to costless to produce.
19
Your choice on profitability
20
3. The Investment Efficiency Lever
21
More on investment efficiency
¨ Looking across global auto companies, the median company 
generates $1.37 in sales for every dollar of capital invested, 
and at the 75th percentile, the more capital-efficient auto 
companies generate $2.42 in revenues for every dollar of 
capital invested. 
¨ My estimate of $3 in revenues for every dollar of capital 
invested reflects an optimistic view of Tesla’s capacity to bring 
technological innovation to its production processes, and 
reduce the capital needed to fund those processes. 
¨ Since Tesla, in 2019, generates $1.32 in revenue for every 
dollar of capital invested, my estimate is more aspirational 
than based on observable efficiencies, right now.
22
Your choice on investment efficiency
23
4. Risk: The Cost of Capital - Global
24
Your choice on cost of capital & the failure rate
25
Valuation Stories
26
The Stories
¨ The Big Auto Story: If your story is that Tesla will emerge from its growth period as one of the 
largest auto companies in the world (revenues of $100 - $300 billion in year 10), with top -tier auto 
company margins (7.42%), investment efficiency (2.42) and cost of capital (6.94%), the value per 
share ranges from $106/share (with BMW like revenues) to $227/share (with Daimler -like 
revenues) to $333/share (with VW/Toyota like revenues).
¨ The Techy Auto Company Story: Tesla is an auto/software/services company with tech company 
characteristics, giving it higher margins (10.25%) and a higher cost of capital (8.86%). With this 
story, the value per share ranges from $111/share (with BMW like revenues) to $212/share (with 
Daimler-like revenues) to $298/share (with VW/T oyota like revenues). Put simply, the higher risk 
nullifies the benefits of higher profitability.
¨ The FAANGy Auto Company: Tesla not only develops a tech twist, but becomes as successful as the 
most successful tech companies (I use the FAANG stocks + Microsoft). In this story, the margins 
approach 18.97% and with a tech cost of capital, the value per share ranges from $459/share (with 
BMW like revenues) to $855/share (with Daimler-like revenues) to $2,106/share (with VW/T oyota 
like revenues).
¨ The Make-your-best Company: I give Tesla the best possible outcomes on each variable, revenues 
like VW/T oyota, margins like pure software companies (21.24%), a sales to capital ratio that is 
higher than any of the sector averages (4.00) and a cost of capital of an auto company (6.94% ), and
arrive at a value per share of $2106.
27
Possible? Plausible? Probable?
¨ With the big auto stories, the key question will be whether T esla can climb to the 
very top of the heap in terms of revenues, generally reserved for mass market 
companies, while earning operating margins that are usually reserved for smaller 
luxury auto companies?
¨ With the techy auto stories, the key question becomes whether a company that 
derives the bulk of its revenues from selling cars be profitable and reinvest like a 
tech company?
¨ With the FAANGy stories, the investment question becomes whether you should 
up front for a company on the expectation that it will be an exceptional company. 
It very well might make it to the top of the heap, but if it does not, you are set up 
for disappointment.
¨ With the MYB story, you are approaching the most dangerous place in valuation, 
where you pick and choose each assumption, without considering the ones you 
have already made. Put simply, is it even possible to build a company that 
generates revenues like Toyota, earns margins like Microsoft and invests more 
efficiently than any manufacturing company in history has ever done, while still 
preserving the low cost of capital of an auto company?
29
When a crisis hits, the dark side beckons…
¨ During a crisis, you will be told that you can no longer 
value companies with fundamentals, and that you have 
to play the trading game.
¤ If your concept of valuation is downloading last year's financials 
for a company into a spread sheet and then using historical 
growth rates, with some mean reversion thrown in, to forecast 
future numbers, they are right.
¤ If your notion of valuation is more dynamic and forward-looking, 
it is precisely at times like these that you need to go back to 
basics.
¨ More importantly, your story for the company matters 
more than ever before, since the numbers can no longer 
be used as a crutch.
30
The COVID Crisis: US Equities, from February 14 
to November 1, 2020
31
Global Equities: By Region (in US $)
32
Global Equities: By Sector
33
Value Transfers
34
How crises affect stories…
¨ Stories can expand: For some companies, a crisis can expand 
stories
¤ By allowing them to reach new customers and devise new business 
models that have staying power (Zoom, Peloton)
¤ By being in the right place at the right time (Moderna)
¤ By handicapping or damaging the competition (Tesla, Airbnb)
¨ Stories can contract: For other companies, a  crisis can shrink 
stories
¤ By making their markets smaller (cruise lines definitely, airlines 
maybe)..
¤ By being in the wrong place at the wrong time (commodity companies)
¨ And the risk of failure becomes real and ignorable: And for all 
companies, a crisis can increase the likelihood of failure (story 
break).
35
A Roadmap to Story Telling & Valuation in a 
crisis
1. Separate the near term from the long term: During a crisis, 
the near-term effects are likely to be both large and 
unpredictable (negative for most companies, but positive 
for a few). Estimate the near term effects on earnings and 
cash flows, using all of the information you have and 
bringing in views on how the macro economy will evolve.
2. Revisit your story for the company: Evaluate how your story 
for the company has changed as a result of the crisis, and 
play out its effect on your long term value inputs (revenue 
growth, margins and reinvestment)
3. Bring in failure risk: For your story to play out, the company 
has to survive. Incorporate, as best as you can, the 
likelihood that your company will not make it through.
36
A Post-Corona Version
41
It’s only an investment!
¨ Money on the table, but no regrets: In the week since I sold Tesla at $640, 
the stock has gone on a wild ride, rising above $900 in two trading days. I. 
I made my decision to buy, based on my story and valuation for Tesla, and 
my decision to sell, for the same reason. If I abandon that philosophy to 
play the momentum game, a game that I am not good at and don’t really 
play well, I may make a bit more money, but at what cost? 
¨ Why the vitriol? In a world where we face unbridgeable divides on 
politics, religion and culture, do we need to add investing to the mix? If 
you stayed with your Tesla investment, I wish you the best, and I hope 
that you are holding on for the right reasons. If you sold short and lost 
money, I get no joy out of your losses and no inclination to do a 
celebratory dance.
¨ Not worth losing sleep over: As far as I am concerned, Tesla is a 
fascinating company, but it is just an investment, not a matter of life or 
death, and definitely not worth losing sleep and friends over.
