Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/UserbasedValue.pdf

USER AND SUBSCRIBER 
BUSINESSES: THE GOOD, THE 
BAD AND THE UGLY
Aswath Damodaran
2
Setting the Stage
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
¨ In a series of posts over the course of the last year, I 
argued that you can value users and subscribers at 
businesses, using first principles in valuation, and have 
used the approach to value Uber riders, Amazon Prime 
members and Spotify &amp; Netflix subscribers. 
¨ I was reminded of these principles this week, first as 
¤ I wrote about Walmart's $16 billion bid for 77% of Flipkart, a 
deal at least partially motivated by user numbers, then again as 
¤ I read a news story about MoviePass and the potential demise of 
its "too good to be true" model and finally as 
¤ I tripped over a LimeBike on my walk home.
3
User Based Value: The Trigger
Aswath 
Damodaran
3
¨ In a post, about a year ago, I approached Uber, as I 
would any other business, and valued it, based upon 
aggregated revenues, earnings and cash flows, 
discounted back at a company-wide cost of capital. 
¨ I was taken to task for applying an old-economy 
valuation approach to a new-economy company and was 
told that that the companies of today derive their value 
from customers, users and subscribers. 
¨ While my initial response was that you cannot pay 
dividends with users, I realized that there was a core 
truth to the critique and that companies are increasingly 
building their businesses around their members.
4
1. Valuing Existing Users
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
2. Valuing New Users
Aswath Damodaran
5
6
3. Corporate Drag
7
Drivers of Value
¨ A standard critique that old-time value investors have of 
user-based companies is that they lose money, but that 
is not true. 
¨ There are user-based companies that make money, but it 
is also true that the user-based model is still in its infancy 
and that many user-based companies are young, and 
therefore lose money. 
¨ That said, there are elements of the cost structure that 
you can look at, to make judgments on which user-based 
companies are most likely to grow out of their problems 
and which ones are just going to grow their problems.
8
Cost Structure
1. Servicing Existing Users versus New User Acquisition: It 
is far better for a company to be losing money, because 
it is spending money try to acquire new users, than it is 
to be losing money, because it is servicing existing 
users. The latter signals a bad business model, at least 
for the moment, whereas the former offers a 
semblance of hope.
2. Fixed versus Variable Costs: For mature companies with 
established business models, it is better to have a more 
flexible cost structure. With money-losing, high-growth 
companies, the reverse is true, since it is the fixed cost 
portion that yields economies of scale, as the company 
grows.
9
Growth
1. Existing versus New Users: A user-based model, where 
you can grow cash flows from existing users is more 
valuable, other things remaining equal, than a user-
based model that is dependent on adding new users 
for growth. Since a company already has expended 
resources to get existing users, any added revenue it 
derives from them is more likely to flow directly to the 
bottom line. 
2. Cost of New User Acquisition: User-based companies 
that are more cost-efficient in adding new users will be 
worth more than user-based companies that spend 
considerable amounts on promotion on marketing, to 
the same end.
10
Example: Netflix versus Spotify
Netflix Spotify
Number of Subscribers 117.6 71
Annual Revenue/Subscriber $         113.16 $         77.63 
Subscriber Service Expenses (as %) 18.90% 79.24%
CAGR in subscriber count 223.93% 369.86%
Value per Existing Subscriber $         508.89 $       108.65 
Cost of acquiring New Subscriber $         111.01 $         27.30 
Value per New Subscriber $         397.88 $         81.35 
Value of all Existing Subscribers $    59,845.86 $    7,714.28 
+ Value of all New Subscribers $  137,276.49 $  20,764.56 
- Corporate Cost Drag $  111,251.70 $  13,139.75 
=Value of Operating Assets $    85,870.65 $  15,339.10
11
Revenue Models
¨ Subscription models tend to be stickier (making 
revenues more predictable) but they offer less upside 
potential (it is difficult to grow subscription fees at high 
rates).
¨ Advertising models scale up faster, since they require 
little in capital investment and adding new users is easier 
(since they free), but revenues are heavily driven by user 
intensity (how much time you can get users to stay in 
your ecosystem) and exclusive data (collected in the 
course of usage).
¨ Transaction models are the riskiest, since they require 
users to use your product or service, but they also offer 
the most upside, since your upside is less constrained.
12
Differentiating across User-based 
companies
13
When Buzz Words become Business 
Propositions
¨ Network benefits refer to the possibility that as you grow 
bigger, it becomes easier for you to get even bigger, making it 
less costly to acquire new users. That is the promise of ride 
sharing, for instance, where as a company gets a larger share 
of a ride sharing market, both drivers and customers are 
more likely to switch to it, the former, because they get more 
customers and the latter, because they find rides more 
quickly.
¨ Big data, in a value framework, offers user-based companies 
an advantage, since what you learn about your users can be 
used to either sell them more products or services (if you are 
a transaction-based company), charge them higher premiums 
(if you are subscription-based) or direct advertising more 
effectively (if advertising-based). .
14
The Pricing Game
¨ As I look at user-based companies, some of which 
are being priced at billions of dollars, I am struck by 
how few of them are built to be long term 
businesses and how many of them are being priced 
on user numbers and buzz words. 
¨ The drivers of user value also give insights on what 
to look for in user based businesses that are headed 
for the precipice.
15
Bad User Businesses: Characteristics
1. All about users, all the time: If the entire sales pitch that a company 
makes to investors is about its user or subscriber numbers, rather than 
its operating results (revenues and operating profits/losses), it is a 
dangerous sign. 
2. Opacity about user data: The companies that are most opaque are often 
the ones that have user models that are not sustainable.
3. Bad business models: A business model that is designed to deliver 
losses, not only in its current form, but with no light at the end of the 
tunnel\
4. Loose talk about data: The data that they will collect from their users to 
make money, without any serious attempt to explain why the data will 
give them an edge.
5. And externalities: Their "innovative" twists on an existing business will 
both expand and alter the business, leading to benefits for other players 
in that business, who, in turn, will share their benefits.
16
MoviePass
17
The Predictable Consequence
18
The Bottom Line
¨ You can build valuable user-based companies, but to 
do so, you need to plan for, work on and develop 
pathways to profitability.
¨ The most valuable user-based companies, collect 
exclusive data from their users that they use to 
generate revenues, have significant economies of 
scale and networking benefits.
¨ A combination of hubris and laziness has led to user 
based companies that are built on bad business 
models, talk casually about big data and have few or 
no pathways to profitability.
