Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session2soln.pdf

Session	  2:	  Post	  class	  test	  solutions	  
1. d.	  All	  of	  the	  above.	  If	  any	  of	  the	  assumptions	  breaks	  down,	  you	  could	  take	  
actions	  that	  increase	  stock	  price	  but	  don’t	  increase	  the	  value	  of	  the	  business.	  
Thus,	  you	  could	  rip	  off	  your	  bondholders/bank	  to	  make	  stockholders	  better	  off,	  
lie	  to	  financial	  markets	  or	  have	  markets	  misread	  your	  results.	  	  
2. c.	  They	  are	  counted	  as	  votes	  for	  incumbent	  management.	  That	  makes	  the	  
system	  tilt	  towards	  incumbents	  and	  makes	  it	  difficult	  for	  you	  to	  challenge	  
managers	  at	  annual	  meetings.	  
3. b.	  They	  tend	  to	  go	  along	  with	  incumbent	  managers	  and	  if	  they	  are	  unhappy,	  
they	  sell	  their	  shares.	  Institutional	  investors	  have	  neither	  the	  stomach	  nor	  the	  
resources	  to	  involve	  themselves	  in	  fights	  with	  managers,	  partly	  because	  they	  are	  
spread	  too	  thin	  (it	  is	  tough	  to	  fight	  battles	  with	  100	  companies)	  or	  because	  they	  
have	  other	  interests	  that	  may	  be	  threatened	  by	  the	  activism.	  
4. c.	  The	  primary	  mission	  of	  the	  board	  of	  directors	  is	  to	  ensure	  that	  top	  
managers	  act	  in	  the	  best	  interests	  of	  stockholders.	  They	  can	  always	  play	  the	  
other	  roles	  as	  well,	  but	  they	  are	  secondary.	  	  
5. d.	  Pay	  “greenmail”	  to	  a	  hostile	  acquirer.	  While	  any	  of	  these	  actions	  can	  
sometimes	  be	  examples	  of	  managerial	  interests	  at	  play,	  the	  clearest	  example	  is	  
to	  pay	  “greenmail”	  to	  make	  a	  hostile	  acquirer	  go	  away.	  Since	  stockholder	  money	  
funds	  the	  greenmail,	  and	  the	  only	  interests	  that	  are	  served	  are	  those	  of	  
incumbent	  managers,	  there	  is	  no	  conceivable	  rationale	  that	  can	  be	  offered	  for	  
paying	  greenmail.	  (I	  know	  that	  the	  anti-­‐takeover	  amendments	  come	  close,	  but	  
there	  are	  two	  reasons	  I	  feel	  less	  strongly	  about	  them:	  first,	  stockholders	  get	  to	  
vote	  on	  them	  (they	  did	  not	  on	  greenmail)	  and	  second,	  value	  seeking	  managers	  
can	  sometimes	  use	  anti-­‐takeover	  amendments	  to	  extract	  higher	  prices	  from	  
acquirers	  for	  their	  stockholders.
