Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaDIY.pdf

A DO-IT-YOURSELF (DIY) 
VALUATION OF TESLA
Investment Regrets and Disagreement
2
Tesla Again?
¨ I was hoping to move on to my data update posts but my last 
post on Tesla drew some attention, in good and bad ways, 
partly because of its timing. 
¨ Right after I sold my shares for $640, based upon my 
valuation of the stock at about $430, the stock took off, 
climbing to more than $900/share in the matter of days. 
¤ There were people on both sides of the great Tesla divide on my 
valuation, with bears accusing me of wearing rose-colored glasses and 
making unrealistically optimistic assumptions and bulls pointing to 
inputs that they felt under-estimated the company’s potential
¤ I thought I would revisit the valuation and present it in a different 
format, one in which you (as the reader) can choose your story for 
Tesla and estimate the value for yourself.
4
The drivers of value
¨ The Growth Lever: The revenue growth rate controls how much and how quickly the firm 
will be able to grow its revenues from autos, software, solar panels and anything else that 
you believe the company. In my Tesla story (valuation), I have estimated revenues of $125 
billion in 2030, a five -fold increase over the 2019 revenues.
¨ The Profitability Lever: The target (pre-tax) operating margin determines how profitable you 
think the company will be, once its growth days start to scale down. In keeping with my view 
that R&amp;D is really a capital expense, I capitalize R&amp;D, which improves Tesla’s 
profitability and target an operating margin of 12% by 2025.
¨ The Investment Efficiency Lever: To grow, companies have to invest in capacity and the sales 
to invested capital drives how efficiently investment is done, with higher sales to capital 
ratios reflecting more efficiency. With T esla, I assume that every dollar of investment (in new 
factories, technology and new R&amp;D) in the first 5 years generates $3 in revenue.
¨ The Risk lever: The first is the cost of capital that I start the valuation with, a reflection of 
risk as seen through the eyes of a diversified investor in the company. The second is 
the likelihood of failure (or distress). With Tesla, I set this cost of capital at 7% and assume 
that given its marginal profitability and significant debt load, the chance of failure is 10 %.
5
The Growth Lever
6
The Biggest Auto Companies
7
A tech company twist?
8
Your growth choice
9
The Profitability Lever
10
A tech twist?
¨ The median operating margin for tech companies 
(including both software & hardware is 10.25%).
¨ The picture is brighter for the FAANG stocks, where 
the aggregate operating margin across all five stocks 
is 19.87%, well above auto industry averages. That 
margin, though, is delivered on smaller revenues and 
with business models where production costs are a 
small fraction of selling prices.
¨ The operating margin for just software companies is 
even higher at 21.24%, because the marginal unit of 
software is close to costless to produce.
11
Your choice on profitability
12
3. The Investment Efficiency Lever
13
More on investment efficiency
¨ Looking across global auto companies, the median company 
generates $1.37 in sales for every dollar of capital invested, 
and at the 75th percentile, the more capital-efficient auto 
companies generate $2.42 in revenues for every dollar of 
capital invested. 
¨ My estimate of $3 in revenues for every dollar of capital 
invested reflects an optimistic view of Tesla’s capacity to bring 
technological innovation to its production processes, and 
reduce the capital needed to fund those processes. 
¨ Since Tesla, in 2019, generates $1.32 in revenue for every 
dollar of capital invested, my estimate is more aspirational 
than based on observable efficiencies, right now.
14
Your choice on investment efficiency
15
4. Risk: The Cost of Capital - Global
16
Your choice on cost of capital & the failure rate
17
Valuation Stories
18
The Stories
¨ The Big Auto Story: If your story is that Tesla will emerge from its growth period as one of the 
largest auto companies in the world (revenues of $100 - $300 billion in year 10), with top -tier auto 
company margins (7.42%), investment efficiency (2.42) and cost of capital (6.94%), the value per 
share ranges from $106/share (with BMW like revenues) to $227/share (with Daimler -like 
revenues) to $333/share (with VW/Toyota like revenues).
¨ The Techy Auto Company Story: Te sl a is an auto/software/services company with tech company 
characteristics, giving it higher margins (10.25%) and a higher cost of capital (8.86%). With this 
story, the value per share ranges from $111/share (with BMW like revenues) to $212/share (with 
Daimler-like revenues) to $298/share (with VW/T oyota like revenues). Put simply, the higher risk 
nullifies the benefits of higher profitability.
¨ The FAANGy Auto Company: Te sl a not only develops a tech twist, but becomes as successful as the 
most successful tech companies (I use the FAANG stocks + Microsoft). In this story, the margins 
approach 18.97% and with a tech cost of capital, the value per share ranges from $459/share (with 
BMW like revenues) to $855/share (with Daimler-like revenues) to $2,106/share (with VW/T oyota 
like revenues).
¨ The Make-your-best Company: I give Tesla the best possible outcomes on each variable, revenues 
like VW/T oyota, margins like pure software companies (21.24%), a sales to capital ratio that is 
higher than any of the sector averages (4.00) and a cost of capital of an auto company (6.94%), and 
arrive at a value per share of $2106.
19
Possible? Plausible? Probable?
¨ With the big auto stories, the key question will be whether T esla can climb to the 
very top of the heap in terms of revenues, generally reserved for mass market 
companies, while earning operating margins that are usually reserved for smaller 
luxury auto companies?
¨ With the techy auto stories, the key question becomes whether a company that 
derives the bulk of its revenues from selling cars be profitable and reinvest like a 
tech company?
¨ With the FAANGy stories, the investment question becomes whether you should 
up front for a company on the expectation that it will be an exceptional company. 
It very well might make it to the top of the heap, but if it does not, you are set up 
for disappointment.
¨ With the MYB story, you are approaching the most dangerous place in valuation, 
where you pick and choose each assumption, without considering the ones you 
have already made. Put simply, is it even possible to build a company that 
generates revenues like Toyota, earns margins like Microsoft and invests more 
efficiently than any manufacturing company in history has ever done, while still 
preserving the low cost of capital of an auto company ?
20
It’s only an investment!
¨ Money on the table, but no regrets: In the week since I sold Tesla at $640, 
the stock has gone on a wild ride, rising above $900 in two trading days. I. 
I made my decision to buy, based on my story and valuation for Tesla, and 
my decision to sell, for the same reason. If I abandon that philosophy to 
play the momentum game, a game that I am not good at and don’t really 
play well, I may make a bit more money, but at what cost? 
¨ Why the vitriol? In a world where we face unbridgeable divides on 
politics, religion and culture, do we need to add investing to the mix? If 
you stayed with your Tesla investment, I wish you the best, and I hope 
that you are holding on for the right reasons. If you sold short and lost 
money, I get no joy out of your losses and no inclination to do a 
celebratory dance.
¨ Not worth losing sleep over: As far as I am concerned, Tesla is a 
fascinating company, but it is just an investment, not a matter of life or 
death, and definitely not worth losing sleep and friends over.
