Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeachingSpr23.pdf

TIME TO TEACH: THE SPRING 
2023 EDITION
Back to teaching…
2
A Ritual
qEach year, ahead of teaching my classes at NYU's Stern 
School of Business inthe spring, I invite readers to 
accompany me on my journey, and this year is no 
different. 
qStarting in late January, I will be back in the classroom, 
teaching valuation and corporate finance to the MBAs 
and valuation to the undergraduates, and theseclasses 
will continue through May 2023. 
qIf you are curiousabout the content of these classes, and 
may want to partake, I will use this post to lay out my 
teaching philosophy, to describe the classes that I teach 
and provide options that you may be able touse to take 
them.
3
Why I teach…
¨I have heard the old saying that "those who can do, and 
those who cannot teach". I would like to believe that I 
am capable of both doing (valuation, corporate finance) 
and teaching.
¨I will leave that judgment for you to make, since my 
valuations are in the public domain (on my blog and in 
my lecture note), and I have been open about how I have 
acted on them. 
¨If your query is why I would continue to teach rather 
than seek out more lucrative careers in investing or 
banking, my answer is a simple one. I love teaching and 
if you follow my classes, I hope it shows
4
My Teaching Philosophy
1. Preparationiskey:ParaphrasingEdison,teachingis90%perspirationand10%inspiration.If
youarepreparedforyourclass,youarewellonyourwaytobeingagoodteacher.
2. Respectyourstudents:IdidnotcareforthoseteachersthatIhad,whenIwasastudent,
thatlookeddownontheirstudents,eitherasbeinglesslearnedthantheywereorless
motivated.
3. Befair:Idon'tbelievethatstudentsdislikeorpunishtoughteachers,butIdobelievethat
theydislikeandpunishteacherswhoareunfair.
4. Haveempathy:ItrytokeepmymemoryfreshbyrememberingthethingsIlikedanddisliked
whenIwasastudent,andtryingnottorepeatthem.
5. Teachingisnotjustintheclassroom:Yourimpactonstudentsisaffectedjustasmuchbut
whatyoudooutsidetheclassroom,inyourofficehoursandinyourinteractions(onlineand
inperson)withyourstudents.
6. Havefun:Ifyoulookatthejoythatyoungchildrenshowwhentheylearnsomethingnew,it
isobviousthathumanbeingsenjoylearning.Iwantmyclassestobemeaningful,impactful
andprofound,butIalsowantthemtobefun.
5
What I teach: Pre-game Prep!
¨If there is a lesson that we should have learned from 
the last few years of market mayhem, it is that far 
too many investors, professional as well as retail, 
seem to have lost their mooring (or never had them 
in the first place), when it comes to the basics of 
accounting, finance and statistics. 
¨I have also learned that having taken classes in these 
subjects does not always fill the gap, and in the last 
few years, I have created my own versions, reflecting 
the tools and skills that I draw upon in my valuation 
and corporate finance classes.
6
1a. Accounting
7
1b. Foundations of Finance
8
c. Statistics.
9
2. Corporate Finance
10
And across the life cycle..
11
3. Valuation
12
Across the life cycle
13
4. Investment Philosophies
14
And across the life cycle
15
Format 1: Regular Classes
¨My corporate finance and valuation classes are taught, as 
semester-long classes, meeting twice a week for 80-minute 
sessions. You can take the class in real time, when the classes 
start late January 2023 and continue through May 2023, or
watch the archived versions from spring 2022.
Class Webpage for class Spring 2023 (Real 
time)
Spring 2022 
(Archived)
Corporate Finance Link Link Link
Valuation (MBA) Link Link Link
Valuation 
(Undergrad) Link Link Link
16
Format 2: Online Classes
¨If you find yourself unable to invest the time needed to take 
my regular classes or find the long sessions unwatchable 
(who can blame you), I have online versions of these classes 
that compress the 80-minute sessions into 12-15 minutes.
Online Class Webpage for class YouTube Playlist
Accounting Link Link
Foundations of Finance Link Link
Statistics Link Link
Corporate Finance Link Link
Valuation Link Link
Investment Philosophy Link Link
17
Format 3: Certificate Classes
¨If certification is what you seek, New York University 
offers my three main courses as certificate classes. 
The content is similar tothat in my online classes, 
but the videos are more polished, the classes follow 
a calendar and I do have an online meetup on zoom 
every two weeks.
Certificate Class NYU Exec Ed Link Semesters taught
Corporate Finance Link Fall Semester
Valuation Link Fall & Spring Semesters
Investment Philosophy Link Spring Semester
18
Sequencing the classes
19
Supporting Cast: The Main Players
1. Lecture Notes: The only material that I require for the students in my class are the 
lecture note slides that I use in the class, and the only reason I require it is to 
reduce the amount of note-taking during class. 
2. Post-class test: Every session of each class comes with a post-class test. These 
tests take about 15 minutes to do, andare a review of the material covered during 
the class. If you have the time, it is worth taking these tests to reaffirm learning.
3. Data: The data that I reference during the class are available in their most updated 
formats on my webpage,under current data, with the next update due at the 
start of 2023.
4. Spreadsheets: I. To save you the trouble of building spreadsheets from scratch, I 
leavemy spreadsheets onlinefor you to access, adapt and change.
5. Tools vid eos: As I noted earlier, my classes are applied, and to provide guidance on 
applying what I teach to real life, I haveYouTube videoson almost every 
application, from how to read an annual report all the way to a full company 
valuation.
6. Blog Posts: If you find the material in my classes of interest, you can read my blog 
onGoogle BloggerandSubstack. I don't post often, but when I do, my posts tend 
to focus on valuation, corporate finance and investment philosophy topics.
20
Optional Cast: Books
Book Publisher link Webpage for book
Valuation
Damodaran on Valuation Link Link
Investment Valuation Link Link
The Dark Side of Valuation Link Link
The Little Book of Valuation Link Link
Narrative and Numbers Link Link
Corporate Finance
Corporate Finance Link Link
Applied Corporate Finance Link Link
Strategic Risk Taking Link Link
Investment Philosophies
Investment Philosophies Link Link
Investment Fables Link Link
All Classes
The Corporate Life Cycle Forthcoming in 2023 Forthcoming in 2023
21
And if you need people support…
¨There is a social component to learning that includes class discussions and 
group interactions that is often absent in big online classes, leaving you 
not only with unanswered questions, but also missing the critical part of 
learning that comes from explaining concepts to and bouncing ideas off 
others in the class.
¨Sebastian Marambio, who has set up a neat site calledWe are six, 
allowing people to set up groups to work with, for online classes, with 
apps available forAndroidandiOS. It is free and the class codes that you 
will need to find and join a group are below:
Class Course Code (for We are Six groups)
Corporate Finance (Online) ADCorp
Valuation (Online) ADValu
Investment Philosophies (Online) ADPhil
