Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2024.pdf

DATA UPDATE 4 FOR 2024: RISK = 
DANGER PLUS OPPORTUNITY 
You cannot have one without the other!
2
The Lead In
¨In my last two posts, I looked at how equity markets rebounded in 
2023, driven by a stronger-than-expected economy and inflation 
coming down, and how interest rates mirrored this rebound. 
¨In this post, I look at risk, a central theme in finance and investing, 
but one that is surprisingly misunderstood and misconstrued and 
look at variations in risk across sectors and geographies, using both 
price-based and intrinsic measures of risk.
¨There are wide variations in risk across companies and countries, 
and those variations can lead to differences in expected returns and 
hurdle rates, central to both corporate finance and investing 
judgments.
3
What is risk? Finance’s Mistakes!
¨First, it has puttoo much emphasis on market-price 
driven measures of risk, where price volatility has 
become the default measure of risk, in spite ofevidence 
indicating that much of this volatility has nothing to do 
with fundamentals. 
¨Second, in our zeal to measure risk with numbers, we 
havelost sight of reality that the effects of risk are as 
much on human psycheas they are on economics. 
¨Third, by making investing a choice between good 
(higher returns) and bad (higher risk), a message is sent, 
perhapsunwittingly,that risk is bad, something to be 
avoided or hedged.
4
Risk: A Healthier Perspective
危機= Danger + Opportunity
¨Thinkingofriskasacombinationofdangerand
opportunityis,inmyview,aperfectpairing.Bylinking
thetwoatthehip,itsendstheclearandveryimportant
signalthatyoucannothaveone(opportunity),without
exposingyourselftotheother(danger.
¨Italsoremovesthenegativityassociatedtorisk,and
bringshomethetruththatyoubuildagreatbusiness
notbyavoidingdanger(risk),butbytakingtheright
risks,whilegettingfairreturnsforthoserisk.
5
Breaking down risk into buckets…
6
And why it helps…
1. Knowwhentostop:Inaworld,wheredataisplentifulandresearchisaccessible,
itiseasytoputoffadecisionorafinalanalysis,whilecollectingmoreinformation.
Thatisunderstandable,butdiggerdeeperintothedatawillleadtobetter
estimates,onlyiftheriskthatyouarelookingatisestimationrisk.Muchofthe
riskthatwefacewhenvaluingcompaniesoranalyzinginvestmentiseconomic
uncertainty,impervioustomoredataandanalysis.Itisthereforehealthytoknow
whentostop,acceptingthatyouranalysisisalwaysawork-in-progressandthat
decisionshavetobemadeinthefaceofuncertainty.
2. Don'toverthinkthediscountrate:Oneofmycontentionsofdiscountratesisthat
theycannotbecomereceptaclesforallyourhopesandfears.Analystsoftentryto
bringcompany-specificcomponents,i.e,microuncertainties,intodiscountrates,
andintheprocess,theyendupincorporatingriskthatinvestorscaneliminate,
oftenatnocost.
3. Usemoreprobabilistic&statisticaltools:Asnotedinthetable,thebesttoolsfor
bringingindiscreteriskareprobabilistic,i.e.,decisiontreesandscenarioanalysis.
Infact,statisticaltoolsare,forthemostpart,tailor-madeformanyofthe
problemsthatwefaceroutinelyinfinance,andareunderutilized.
7
Risk Measurement: The Markowitz 
Breakthrough!
8
Room to disagree?
¨By building on the assumptions that the investors pricing a 
business are diversified, and price-based risk measures, 
modern portfolio theory has exposed itself to criticism from 
those who disagree with one or both of theseassumptions. 
¤Thus, there are old-time value investors whose primary disagreement 
is on the use of pricing measures for risk, arguing that risk has tocome 
from numbers that drive intrinsic value -earnings and cash flows. 
¤There are other investors who are at peace with price-based risk 
measures, butdisagree with the "diversified marginal investor" 
assumption, and they are more intent on finding risk measures that 
incorporate not just the macro components of risk, but also their micro 
concerns. I do believe that the critiques of both groups have legitimate 
basis, and while I don't feel as strongly, I can offer modifications of risk 
measures to counter the critiques;
9
Modifications on Risk Measurement
10
Risk Differences across Companies –Price-
based Risk Measures!
¨My data universe includes all publicly traded companies, and 
since they are publicly traded, computing price-based risk 
measures is straight forward.  That said, it should be noted 
that liquidity varies widely across these companies, with 
some located in markets where trading is rare and others in 
markets, with huge trading volumes. 
¨With that caveat in mind, I computed three risk-based 
measures -
¤a simplistic measure of range, where I look at the distance between 
the high and low prices, and scale it to the mid-point, 
¤thestandard deviation in stock prices, a conventional measure of 
volatility and
¤beta, a measure of that portion of a company's risk that is market-
driven.
11
Price-based Risk: Sector Differences
12
Price-based Risk: Regional Differences
13
Price-based Risk: Age Deciles
14
Intrinsic Risk Measures
¨Price-basedriskmeasureshavetheiradvantages,
includingbeingconstantlyupdated,buttheydohave
theirlimits,especiallywhenliquidityisloworwhen
marketpricesarenottrustworthy.
¨Inthissection,Iwilllookatthreemeasuresofintrinsic
risk–
¤whetheracompanyismakingorlosingmoney,withthelatter
beingriskier,
¤thevariabilityinearnings,withlessstableearningstranslating
tohigherrisk,and
¤the debt load of companies, with more debt and debt charges 
conferring more risk on companies.
15
Intrinsic Risk: Sector Differences
16
Intrinsic Risk: Regional Differences
17
Intrinsic Risk: Age Deciles
18
Risk Differences across Countries
19
ERP , by Country: Computational Detail
21
Risk and Investing: Hurdle Rates!
22
Cost of Capital in January 2024
23
What’s coming?
¨Itisagiventhatthingswillchangeoverthecourseoftheyear.Rephrasing
anoldsaying,theonlyconstantinmarketsisthattheywillchange.
¨Ifyourquestionishowyouprepareforthatchange,oneansweristobe
dynamicandadaptable,notonlyreworkinghurdleratesasyougo
throughtheyear,butalsobuildinginescapehatchesandreversibility
evenintolongtermdecisions.
¨Incasethingsdon'tgothewayyouexpectedthemto,andyoufeelthe
urgetocomplainaboutuncertainty,IurgeyoutorevisittheChinese
symbolforrisk.Weliveindangeroustimes,butembeddedinthose
dangersareopportunities.
¨Ifyoucangainanedgeontherestofthemarketinassessinganddealing
withsomeofthesedangers,youhaveapathwaytosuccess.Iamnot
suggestingthatthisiseasytodo,orthatsuccessisguaranteed,butif
investmentisagameofodds,thiscanhelptilttheminyourfavor.
