Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate13.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE XIII: 
THE STRONG (FANGAM) GET 
STRONGER!
Market Domination!
2
From meltdown to update..
¨ When I started these updates on February 26, 2020, about two weeks 
after the markets had gone into free fall, my first six posts were titled as 
"Viral Market Meltdowns", reflecting the sell off across the globe. About 
midway through, I changed the title, replacing the word "meltdown" with 
"update", since markets turned around since those dark days. 
¨ In fact, by August 14, the date of this update, US equities had recouped all 
of their crisis losses and were trading higher than they were on February 
14, the start of the crisis. In that six-month period, though, there has been 
a reallocation of value, from old to young, value to growth and 
manufacturing to technology companies, and I have tried to both 
chronicle and explain this shift in earlier posts.
¨ In this one, I plan to focus on a subset of technology companies, the 
FANG (Facebook, Apple, Netflix and Google) stocks, younger 
companies that have soared in value over the last two decades, and two 
other tech companies of longer standing, Apple and Microsoft. These 
companies have key to the market comeback, and assessing whether 
their valuations are sustainable is key to also assessing the market.
3
Market Overview: Equities
4
Market Overview: Treasuries
5
Market Overview: Corporate Spreads
6
Market Overview: Commodities
7
Market Overview: Gold and Bitcoin
8
Global Equities: By Region
9
Global Equities: By Sector
10
Global Equities: Industry Winners & Losers
11
The FANGAM Stocks
12
Corporate Life Cycle
13
FANGAM: Exceptions to the rule?
¨ Amazon, the Original: After its stint as poster child for the dot com boom, Amazon's online retail 
business flirted with failure in 2001, but survived and prospered in the next decade. By 2010, 
though, it seemed like Amazon's story had run its course, but just as investors were readying for 
the company becoming a mature retailer, the company reinvented itself as a disruption platform, 
ready to go after any business it chose to, with an army (Amazon Prime) backing it up.
¨ Apple and Microsoft, the Reincarnation Duo : By tech company standards, Apple and Microsoft are 
old companies that should be struggling to hold on to their customers and fighting off competition. 
Both companies though seem to have found a way to move the clock back and retain their status 
as growth companies, Apple with the smart phone and Microsoft with Azure.
¨ Alphabet and Facebook, the Advertising Juggernauts : Google and Facebook have had almost 
uninterrupted growth, since their founding, taking advantage of the shift to online advertising and 
dominating that shift, while also delivering profit margins in the stratosphere. 
¨ Netflix, the Shape Shifter : Of the six stocks, the one that has had to make the most mid -course 
corrections, changing its business model, from video rental company to content renter to content 
provider, to reflect a changing world, is Netflix. It started life as a video rental service, mailing DVDs 
to its customers, and undercutting Blockbuster, the dominant player in the business then.
14
The FANGAM stocks, in January 2010
¨ The Lagging Giant: At the start of 2010, Microsoft had a market capitalization in excess of $270 
billion, and was second only to Exxon Mobil, with a market cap of $320 billion, but that 
represented a come down from its status as the largest market cap company at the start of 2000, 
with a market cap exceeding $500 billion.
¨ The Rising Star: At the start of 2010, Apple's market cap was approaching $200 billion, a quantum 
leap from its market cap of $16 billion, ten years earlier .
¨ The Field of Dreams Company: By early 2010, Amazon had cemented its status as online retailer, 
capable of growing its revenues at the expense of its brick and mortar competitors, but without a 
clear pathway to profitability. The market seemed to be willing to overlook this limitation, giving 
the company a market cap of more than $50 billion, a significant comeback from the dot -com bust 
days of 2001, when it was valued at less than $4 billion.
¨ The New Tech Prototype: In January 2010, Google was already the prototype for the new tech 
model, reaching a hundred-billion dollar market cap threshold than any other company in history, 
with a market capitalization of more than $160 billion in early 2010.
¨ On the cusp: In early 2010, it is unlikely that anyone would have put Netflix on the list of big -time 
winners, since its market capitalization was less than $4 billion and its business model of renting 
content and signing up subscribers was already under strain.
¨ The glimmer in the market's eye: At the start of 2010, Facebook was still a private business, though 
venture capitalists were clearly excited about its prospects, pricing it at roughly $14 billion in 
January 2010, based primarily on its user numbers.
15
And its outsized role in the bull market
16
The COVID Crisis: Time for a reckoning?
¨ For many old-time value investors, the FANGAM stocks 
became a symbol of growth and momentum run 
amok, though the best investment made by a legendary 
member of this group (Warren Buffet) was in one of the 
companies (Apple). 
¨ Between January 1, 2020 and February 14, 2020, the 
FANGAM stocks continued to rise more than the rest of the 
market and they collectively accounted for 16.08% of the 
market cap of all US equities on February 14, up from the 
14.94% at the start of the year . 
¨ When the crisis hit, there were some in this group who felt 
that the market correction would be felt disproportionately 
by this group, given their status as growth and momentum 
stocks.
17
The COVID test
18
The FANGAM Strengths
¨ Cash Machines : Each of these companies has a business or segment that is a cash 
machine, generating high profitability and huge amounts of cash for the company, 
iPhone for Apple, the online ad business for Facebook and Alphabet, the software 
and cloud businesses for Microsoft, the cloud business for Apple and subscription 
revenues for Netflix.
¨ Platform of users/subscribers : The FANMAG stocks also share user bases that are 
immense, with Facebook leading that numbers game with close to 2.7 billion 
users, many of whom spend large portions of each day in its ecosystem. 
Microsoft, Google and Apple all also have more than a billion users apiece, using 
multiple ways to entangle them. Amazon and Netflix may not be able to match 
the other four companies on sheer numbers, but each has hundreds of millions of 
users.
¨ Proprietary and Actionable Data : I What sets the FANMAG companies apart is that 
they use big data to create value, partly because the data that they collect is 
proprietary (Facebook from your posts, Amazon/Alexa from your 
shopping/interactions, Netflix from your watching habits, Google from your 
search history and Apple from your device usage) and actionable.
19
The COVID crisis and Backlash..
¨ Each of these strengths has contributed to helping these companies not just ride out the 
COVID storm, but also emerge stronger from it. 
¤ The cash machines embedded in each company, combined with light debt loads (relative to their 
earnings and valuations), have left them unscathed, while their debt -laden competitors are 
hamstrung by default and distress concerns. 
¤ The economic shut down has left people home -bound and more dependent than ever before on the 
FANGAM companies to get through the day.
¨ In fact, it is the fact that these companies are doing so well that is giving rise to the biggest 
threat to their continued success, which is regulatory and legal pushback. 
¤ With Facebook and Google, this is already a reality, especially in the aftermath of the privacy debates 
and worries about their platforms being used for political influence. 
¤ Amazon's disruption of retail has long been a source of concern for critics, but voices pushing for the 
use of legal restraints on the company are growing louder . 
¤ Apple operated under the radar of political and legal scrutiny for a long time, but recent attempts to 
force app sellers to sell only through its App Store, have drawn calls for restrictions.
¤ While Microsoft is now viewed as the most virtuous of the six, and is in fact the most widely held 
stock in ESG portfolios, I am old enough to remember when Microsoft was viewed as the Darth Vader 
of technology and targeted by the Justice department for breakup, because of its monopoly power .
20
Valuing the FANGAM Stocks
21
Action Time!
¨ In the interests of full disclosure, at the time that I started on 
this post, I owned three of these six stocks, Apple, Facebook 
and Microsoft, with each having spent significant time in my 
portfolio; my posts detailing their acquisitions 
are here, here and here. 
¨ After my valuations,
¤ I did sell my Apple holdings today (August 19, 2020) as the company 
crested the $2 trillion mark. 
¤ I will continue to hold Microsoft, even though I believe that it is 
moderately overvalued, and Facebook, hoping for more upside. 
¤ Google and Netflix will remain on my watch list, and I plan to add 
either stock, on weakness. 
¤ I will not tempt fate, and sell short on Amazon, partly because I have 
seen what the market does to Amazon short sellers and partly because 
I struggle to think of a catalyst that will cause the price to adjust.
