Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BitcoinCash.pdf

MicroStrategy:RoleModelorException?
§There are two disparate and very different topics that I have 
written about in the past. 
§The first is the role thatcash holdings play in a business, an extension of 
the dividend policy question, and the reason why businesses may and 
often should not pay out what they have available to shareholders. 
§The second isbitcoin, which can be viewed as either a currency or a 
collectible, and I have said pretty much all that I have to say in series of 
posts where I argue that bitcoin can only be priced, not valued, making 
debates about whether to buy or not to buy entirely a function of 
perception. 
§While there may be little that seemingly connects the two, I was 
drawn to write this post because of a debate that seems to be 
heating up on whether companies should put some or a large 
portion of their cash balances into bitcoin, with the success of 
MicroStrategy, a high-profile beneficiary of this action, a driving 
factor for the shift. 
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
§In my introductory finance classes, there was little discussion of 
cash holdings in companies, outside of the sessions on working 
capital. In those sessions, cash was introduced as alubricant for 
businesses, necessary for day-to-day operations. In fact, there 
were rules of thumb that were developed on how much cash a 
company needed to have for its operations. As the world shifts 
away from cash to digital and online payments, this need for cash 
has decreased, but clearly not disappeared. 
§For some companies, at least, the rationale for holding far more 
cash than justified by their operating needs is that it can operate as 
ashock absorber, something that they can fall back on during 
periods of crisis or to cover unexpected expenses. That is the 
reason that cyclical and commodity firms have often offered for 
holding large cash balances (as a percent of their overall firm 
value), since a recession or a commodity price downturn can 
quickly turn profits to losses.
Aswath Damodaran 5
§There is a final rationale for holding cash that is rooted in 
corporate governance and the control and power that comes 
from holding cash. 
§I have long argued that absent pressure from shareholders, 
managers at most publicly traded firms would choose to return 
none of the cash that they generate, since that cash balance not 
only makes them much sought after (by bankers and 
consultants who are endlessly inventive about uses that the 
cash can be put to) but also gives them the power to use that 
cash to further their own interests.
¨7
Aswath Damodaran 8
Aswath Damodaran 9
§The origin story for Bitcoin matters since it helps us understand both its 
appeal and its structure. It was born in November 2008, two months 
into one of the worst financial crises of the last century, with banks and 
governments viewed as largely responsible for the mess. 
§Not surprisingly, Bitcoin was built on the presumption that you cannot 
trust these institutions, and its biggest innovation was theblockchain, 
designed as a way of crowd-checking transactions and preserving 
transaction integrity. 
§I have long described Bitcoin as a currency designed by the paranoid for 
the paranoid, and I have never meant that as a critique, since in 
the untrustworthy world that we live in, paranoia is a justifiable 
posture.
§With bitcoin, this classification allows us to cut through the many 
distractions that pop up during discussions of its pricing level, 
since it can be framed either as a currency or a collectible, and 
thus only priced, not valued. 
§Seventeen years into its existence, Bitcoin has struggled on the 
currency front, and while there are pockets where it has gained 
acceptance, its design had made it inefficientand its volatility has 
impeded its adoption as a medium of exchange. 
§As a collectible, Bitcoin starts with the advantage of scarcity, restricted 
as it is to 21 million units, but it has not quite measured up, at least so far, 
when it comes to holding its value (or increasing it) when financial 
assets are in meltdown mode. In every crisis since 2008, Bitcoin has 
behaved more like risky stock, falling far more than the average stock, 
when stocks are down, and rising more, when they recover. 
§The bottom line is that discussions of whether Bitcoin is cheap or 
expensive are often pointless and sometimes frustrating, since it 
depends almost entirely on your perspective on how the demand 
for Bitcoin will shift over time.
§The company’s CEO, Michael Saylor, has been a vocal and 
highly visible promoter of Bitcoin, and has converted many of 
his shareholders into fellow-evangelists and convinced at least 
some of them of being prescient in detecting price movements. 
§In fact, in recent years, he has been public in his plans to issue 
increasing amounts of stock and using the proceeds to buy 
more bitcoin.
§At least at this point in time, MicroStrategy is less a software 
company and more a Bitcoin SPAC or closed-end fund, where 
investors are trusting Saylor to make the right trading 
judgments on when to buy (and sell) bitcoin, and hoping to 
benefit from the profits.
§Bitcoin does not meet the cash motives: Replacing cash with its low 
volatility with bitcoin, a much more volatile asset, would undercut this 
objective. 
§Bitcoin can step on your operating business narrative: It creates 
confusion about why a company with a solid business narrative from which 
it can derive value would seek to make money on a side investment. 
Second, the ebbs and flows of bitcoin can affect financial statements, 
making it more difficult to connect operating results to story lines.
§Managers as traders?When companies are given the license to move 
their cash into bitcoin or other non-operating investments, you are trusting 
managers to get the timing right, in terms of when to buy and sell these 
investments. 
§Leave it to shareholders: Even if you are unconvinced by the first two 
reasons, and you are a bitcoin advocate or enthusiast, you will be better 
served pushing companies that you are a shareholder in, to return their 
cash to you, to invest in bitcoin, gold or any other investment at the time of 
your choice. 
§License for abuse: Giving managers the permission to trade crypto 
tokens, bitcoin or other collectibles can open the door for self dealing and 
worse.
§if a company has a leader (usually a CEO or CFO) who is viewed as 
someone who is good at gauging bitcoin price direction, it is possible 
that shareholders in the company may be willing to grant him or her 
the license to trade bitcoin on their behalf. 
§This is, of course, not unique to bitcoin, and you can argue that 
investors in Berkshire Hathaway have paid a premium for its stock, and
allowed it leeway to hold and deploy immense amounts of cash 
because they trusted Warren Buffett to make the right investment 
judgments.
§Thebigquestioniswhetheryoucanseparateskill from luck, when it 
comes to getting big moves in bitcoin right.
§For some companies, holding bitcoin may be part and parcel of 
their business operations, less a substitute for cash and more 
akin to inventory.
§PayPal and Coinbase, both of which hold large amounts of 
bitcoin, would fall into this carveout, since both companies 
have business that requires that holding.
§Onetestofthismotiveiswhetherthebitcoinholdingsofthe
companytracktheportionofthecompany’sbusinessthatis
denominatedordrivenbybitcoin.
§As some of you may be aware, I noted thatMercado Libre, a 
Latin American online retail firm, is on my buy list, and it is a 
company with a fairly substantialbitcoin holding. 
§While part of that holding may relate to the operating needs of 
their fintech business, it is worth noting that Mercado Libre is 
an Argentine company, and the Argentine peso has been a 
perilous currency to hold on to, making bitcoin a viable option 
for cash holdings. 
§Generalizing, companies in countries with failed 
currencies may conclude that holding their cash in bitcoin 
is less risky than holding it in the fiat currencies of the 
locations they operate in.
§There is a final grouping of companies that I would put in the 
meme stock category, withAMC and Gamestopheading that 
list. 
§These companies have operating business models that have 
broken down or have declining value, but they have become, 
by design or through accident, trading plays, where the price 
bears no resemblance to operating fundamentals and is instead 
driven by mood and momentum. 
§If that is the case, it may make sense for these companies to 
throw in the towel on operating businesses entirely and instead 
make themselves even more into trading vehicles by moving 
into bitcoin, with the increased volatility adding to their 
"meme" allure.
1.Shareholder buy-in: If you are a publicly traded company considering 
investing some or much of the company's cash in bitcoin, it behooves 
you to get shareholder approval for that move, since it is shareholder 
cash that is being deployed.
2.Transparency about Bitcoin transactions/holdings: Once a company 
invests in bitcoin, it is imperative that there be full and clear disclosure 
not only on those holdings but also on trading (buying and selling) that 
occurs. After all, if it is a company's claim that it can time its bitcoin 
trades better than the average investor, it should reveal the prices at 
which it bought and sold its bitcoin.
3.Clear mark-to-market rules: If a company invests its cash in bitcoin, I 
will assume that the value of that bitcoin will be volatile, and 
accounting rules have toclearly specify how that bitcoin gets marked to 
market, and where the profits and losses from that marking to market 
will show up in the financial statements.
§The benefits of getting companies and institutional investors to 
buy into bitcoin is that it increases demand,andwithafixed
supply,economicsdrivesthepriceupwards.
§That may seem like an unmixed blessing, but there will be costs 
that, in the long run, may lead at least some advocates to regret 
this push:
§Differentinvestorbase: Drawing in institutional investors and 
companiesintothebitcoin market will not only change its 
characteristics, butput traders who may know how to play the 
market now at a disadvantage, as it shifts dynamics.
§Heretoday,gone tomorrow?Bitcoin may be in vogue now, but what 
will the consequences be if it halves in price over the next six 
months. Institutions and companies are notoriously ”sheep like”, 
and what is in vogue today may be abandoned tomorrow.
§Correlationwithfinancial assets: Every investment class that has 
been securitized and brought into institutional investing has started 
behaving like a financial asset.
