Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CEOLifeCycle.pdf

MANAGING ACROSS THE 
CORPORATE LIFE CYCLE: CEOS 
AND STOCK PRICES
The Myth of the Great CEO
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
The Lead In
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨One of the big news stories of last week was Jack Dorsey stepping down 
as CEO of Twitter, and the market's response to that news was to push up 
Twitter's stock price by almost 10%. That reaction suggests, at least for 
the moment, that investors believe that Twitter will be better off without 
Dorsey running it, a surprise to those in the founder-worship camp. 
¨As the debate starts about whether Dorsey's hand-picked successor, Parag 
Agrawal, is the right person to guide Twitter through its next few years, I 
decided to revisit a broader question of what it is that makes for a "great 
CEO" and how the answer to that question lies in what stage of the 
corporate life cycle a company is in. 
¨In the process, I will also look at the thorny issue of what happens when 
there is a mismatch between a company and its CEO, either because the 
board picks the wrong candidate for the job or because the company has 
changed over time, and the CEO has not.
3
The Myth of the Great CEO: HBR
Aswath Damodaran
3
¨The Harvard Business School, every student who enters 
the MBA program seems to be viewed as CEO-in-waiting, 
notwithstanding the reality that there are two few 
openings to accommodate that ambition. 
¨The Harvard Business Review, over the years, has 
published multiple articles about the characteristics of 
the most successful CEOs, andthis onefor instance, 
highlighted four characteristics that they share in 
common: 
(a)deciding with speed and conviction
(b)engaging for impact with employees and the outside world 
(c) adapting proactively to changing circumstances and 
(d)delivering reliably.
4
The Myth of the Great CEO: McKinsey
Aswath Damodaran
4
5
The Effect of Popular Culture
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨That perspective also gets fed by books and movies about 
successful CEOs, real or imagined. Consider Warren Buffett, 
Jack Welch and Steve Jobs, very different men who have been 
mythologized in the literature. 
¤Many of the books about Buffettread more like hagiographies than 
true biographies, given how star struck the writers of these books are 
about the man, but by treating him as a deity, they do him a disservice. 
¤The fall of GE has taken some of the shine from Jack Welch's star, but 
at his peak, just over a decade ago, he was viewed as someone that 
CEOs should emulate. 
¤With Steve Jobs, the picture of an innovative, risk-taking disruptor 
comes not just from books about the man, but from movies that gloss 
over his first, and rockier, stint as founder-CEO of Apple in the 1980s.
6
Why one-size-fits-all does not work…
¨ Even if all successful CEOs share the qualities listed in the HBR/McKinsey papers, 
not all people or even most people withthesequalities becomeSuccessful CEOs. 
So, is there a missing ingredient that allowed them to succeed?If so, what is it? 
¨ I find it odd that there are no questionable qualities listed on the successful CEO 
list, especially given the evidence that over confidence seems to be a common 
feature among CEOs, and that it is this over confidence that allows them to take 
act decisively and adopt long term perspectives. When those bets, often made in 
the face of long odds, pay off, the makers of those bets will be perceived as 
successful, but when they do not, the decision makers are consigned to the ash 
heap of failure. Put simply, it is possible that the quality that binds together 
successful CEOs the most is luck, a quality that neither Harvard Business School 
nor McKinsey can pass on. 
¨ There are clearly some successful CEOs who not only do not possess many of the 
listed qualities, but often have their inverse.If you believe that Elon Musk and 
Marc Benioff, CEOs of T esla and Salesforce, are great CEOs, how many of the 
Harvard/McKinsey criteria would they possess?
7
A Life Cycle View of CEOs
8
The “Right” CEO
¨ The Visionary: Early in the life cycle, as a company struggles to find traction with a business idea that meets an unmet demand, you need a visionary as a CEO, capable of thinking outside the box and with the capacity to draw employees and investors to that vision. 
¨ The Pragmatist: In converting an idea to a product or service, history suggests that pragmatism wins out over purity of vision, as compromises have to be made on design, production and marketing to convert an idea company into a business. 
¨ The Business Builder: As the products/services offered by the company scale up, the capacity to build businesses becomes front and center, as production facilities have to be built and supply chains put in place, critical for business success but clearly not as exciting as selling visions. 
¨ The Opportunist: Once the initial idea has become a business success, the needs to keep scaling up may require coming up with extensions of existing product lines or geographies to grow, where an opportunistic, quick-acting CEO can make a difference. 
¨ The Defender: As companies enter the late phases of middle age, the imperative will shift from finding new markets to defending existing market share, in what I think of the trench warfare phase of a company, where shoring up moats takes priority over new product development.
¨ The Liquidator: The most difficult phase for a company is decline, as the company is dismantled and its sells or shuts down its constituent parts, since any one who is put in charge of this process has only pain to mete out, and bad press.
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
Why CEO/Company Mismatches happen…
¨ A Mistake: The first is that the board of directors for a company seeking a new 
CEO hires someone who is viewed by many as a successful CEO, but whose 
success came at a company at a very different stage in its life cycle. (Jeff Immelt as 
CEO of Uber in 2017? Really?)
¨ A Gamble on Reincarnation: There are times when a board of director picks a 
mismatched CEO intentionally, with the hope that the CEO characteristics rub off 
on the company. This is often the case when you have a mature or declining 
company that thinks hiring a visionary as a CEO will lead to reincarnation as a 
growth company. While the impulse to become young again is understandable, 
the odds are against this gamble working, leaving the CEO tarnished and company 
worse off, in the aftermath.(Marissa Mayer at Yahoo! In 2012)
¨ Companies change: The third is a more subtle problem, where a company is well 
matched to its CEO at a point in time, but then evolves across the life cycle, but 
the CEO does not. Using the Uber example again, Travis Kalanick, a visionary and 
rule breaker, might have been the best match for Uber as a company, disrupting a 
highly regulated business (taxi cabs), but even without his personal missteps, he 
was ill-suited to a company that faced a monumental task of converting a model 
built on acquiring new riders into one that generated profits in 2017.
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
The Consequences…
Aswath Damodaran
10
11
Back to the Life Cycle
Aswath Damodaran
11
12
The Compressed Tech Life Cycle
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
Founder CEOs –Evidence on Turnover
¨ Founder Displacement: Using data on top management turnover at young firms, 
many of them non-public, he concludes that almost 30% of CEOs at these firms 
are replaced within a few years of inception, usually at the time of new product 
development or fresh financing. Much of this phenomenon can be explained by 
venture capitalists, with large stakes, pushing for change in these companies, but 
a portion of it is voluntary, and to explain why a founder CEO might willingly step 
down, Wasserman uses the concept ofthe founder's dilemma, where founders 
trade off full control of a much less valuable firm (with themselves in control) for 
lesser control of a much more valuable firm (with someone else at the helm). 
¨ Founder Worship: The founders who do manage to stay at the helm of companies 
that make it throughto early growth statusare put on a pedestal, relative to CEOs 
of established companies. While that may be understandable, in some cases, it 
takes the form of founder worship, where founders are viewed as untouchable, 
and any challenge to their authority is viewed as bad, leading to efforts to change 
the rules of the game to prevent these challenges.
Aswath Damodaran
13
14
Entrenching Founder CEOs: The Peril of a 
Compressed Life Cycle
¨In the United States, where prior to 2004, it was unusual to 
see shares with different voting rights in the same firm, it is 
now more the rule than the exception in many tech 
companies.
¨Endowing CEOs with increased powers to fend off challenges 
seems like a particularly bad idea at tech companies, since 
their compressed life cycles are likely to create more, rather 
than less, mismatches between companies and their 
founder/CEOs, and sooner, rather than later.
¨If I am an investor, I would worry more than ever before 
about giving up voting power to founder/CEOs, even if they 
are well regarded, because today's star CEO can become 
tomorrow's problem.
Aswath Damodaran
14
15
Implications for Investors
¨I have long argued that when investing in young tech 
companies, you are investing in a story about the 
company, not an extrapolation of numbers.
¨The compressed corporate life cycle and the potential for 
CEO/company mismatches that it creates adds a layer of 
additional uncertainty to valuation. In short, when 
assessing the value of a young company's story, you are 
also assessing the capacity of the management of the 
company to deliver on that story. 
¨To the extent that the founder is the lead manager, and 
the narrative-setter, any concerns you have about the 
founder's capacity to convert that story into business 
success will translate into lower value.
Aswath Damodaran
15
16
1. Amazon
¨Many younger investors are surprised when I tell them that Bezos was not 
a household name for much of Amazon's early rise, and that it was The 
Washington Post acquisition in 2013 that brought him into public view. 
¨One reason that I attached lofty values to Amazon as a company, even 
when it was a tiny, money-losing company was that Bezos not only 
toldthe same story, one that I described asField of Dreams story, where if 
you build it (revenues), they (profits) will come. but acted consistently 
with that story. 
¨He built a management team that believed that story and trusted them to 
make big decisions for the company, thus easing the transition from small, 
online book retailer to one of the largest companies in the world. It is a 
testimonial to Bezos' success that Amazon's value as a company today 
would be close to the same, with or without him at the helm, explaining 
whythe announcement that he was stepping down as CEOon July 5 
created almost no impact on the stock price.
Aswath Damodaran
16
17
2. Twitter
¨ Ivalued Twitter for the first time, just ahead of its IPO in 2013, and built a model 
premised on the assumption that the company would find a way to monetize its 
larger user base and build a consistently money-making enterprise. 
¨ In the years since, I have been frustrated by its inability to make that transition, 
and in this post in 2015, I laid the blame at least partially at the feet of Twitter's 
management, contrasting its failure to Facebook's success. 
¨ I don't know Jack Dorsey, and I wish him the best, but in my view, his skill set 
seemed ill suited to what Twitter needed to succeed as a business, especially as 
he was splitting his time as Square's CEO, and talking about taking asix-month 
break in Africa. In fact, eight years after going public, Twitter's strongest suit 
remains that it has lots of users, but its capacity to make money of these users is 
still ill-formed. 
¨ One reason why the market responded so positively, jumping 10% on the 
newsthat Dorsey was leaving, is indicative of the relief that change was coming, 
and the reason that it has fallen back is that it is not clear that Parag Agrawal has 
what the company needs now. He has time to prove investors wrong, but he is on 
probation, as investors look to him to reframe Twitter's narrative and start 
delivering results.
Aswath Damodaran
17
18
3. Paytm
¨ A few weeks ago, I valued one of India's new unicorns, Paytm, an online payment processing 
company built on the promise of a huge and growing online payment market in India. In my 
valuation, I told an uplifting story of a company that would not only continue to grow its user 
base and services, but also increase its take rate (converting users to revenues) and benefit 
from economies of scale to become profitable over the course of the next decade.
¨ I valued Paytm at about₹2,200, but in telling that story, I noted one big area of concern with 
existing management, that seemed to be more intent on adding users and services than on 
converting them into revenues, and pre-disposed to grandiosity in its statement of purpose 
and forecasts. 
¨ In the months since, the company has gone public, and while the offering price, at₹2150, 
was close to my value, the stock price collapsed in the days after to less than₹1400 and has 
languished at about₹1600-₹1700 since. 
¨ If you were concerned about Vijay Sharma's capacity to convert the promise of Paytm into 
eventual profits, before the IPO, you would have been even more concerned after listening 
to him in the days leading into the IPO. It is still too early to conclude that there is a 
company/CEO mismatch, but if I were the top management of the firm, I would talk less 
about users and gross merchandise value, and talk and do more about picking up the 
abysmally low take rate at the firm.
Aswath Damodaran
18
19
Family Group Companies
¨ Much of Asian and Latin American business is built around family groups, many of 
which have roots that go back decades. Using a combination of connections and 
connections, these family groups have lived through economic and political 
changes, and as many of the companies that they own have entered public 
markets, they have stayed in control. 
¨ To see h ow  th e corp orate life cycle stru ctu re story p lays ou t in  fam ily 
groupcompanies, it is worth remembering that family groups often control 
companies that spread across many business, effectively resembling 
conglomerates in their reach, but structured as individual companies. 
¨ Consequently, it is not only possible butlikely that a family group will control 
companies at different stages in the corporate life cycle, ranging from young, 
growth companies at one end of thespectrum todeclining companies at the 
other end of the spectrum. This intra-group capital market becomes trickier to 
balance, as family group companies go public, since you need shareholder 
assentfor these capital transfers.With weak corporate governance, more the rule 
than the exception at family group companies, it is entirely possible that 
shareholders in the more mature and cash-generating companies in a family 
group are being forced to invest in younger, growth companies in that same 
group.
Aswath Damodaran
19
20
Implications for CEO Turnover: A Life Cycle 
View
¨ Studies consistently show lower forced turnover, when a company is led by a family member 
CEO, which can open up mismatches between companies and CEOs at family groups. Here 
are some things that family groups can do to reduce this mismatch problem.
¤ First, power has to become more diffuse even within the family,away from a powerful family leader 
and towards a family committee, to allow forthe different perspectives needed to become successful 
in businesses at other stages in the life cycle. 
¤ Second, there has to be a serious reassessment of where differentbusinesses,within the family 
group, are in the life cycle, withspecial attention to those that aretransitioning from one phase to 
another . 
¤ Third, if top management positions are restricted tofamily members, the challenge for the family will 
be finding people with the characteristics needed to run businesses across the life cycle spectrum. 
¤ As many family groupcompanies enter thetechnology space, drawn by its potential growth, the 
limiting constraint might be finding avisionary,story teller from within the family, and if one does not 
exist, whether the family will be willing to bring someone fromoutside, and give that person enough 
freedom to run the young, growth business. 
¤ Finally, if a mismatch arises between a family member CEO and the business he or she is responsible 
for running, there has to be a willingness to remove or move that family member from power.
Aswath Damodaran
20
21
Implications for Investors
¨ Are family group companies, in general, better or worse investments than 
investments in other publicly traded companies? The evidence, not 
surprisingly, is mixed, with some finding a positive payoff, which they attribute 
to a better alignment of long-term investor and management interests at 
these companies, and others finding negative returns, largely as a result of 
management succession problems.
¨ To address w hy fam ily control can help in som e cases, and hurt in others, it 
again helps to bring in the corporate life cycle.
¤ In the portions of the corporate life cycle, where patienceand a steady hand are required, the 
presence of a family CEO may increase value, since he or she will be more inclined to think 
about long term consequences for value, rather than short term profitor pricing effects. 
¤ On the other hand, if a family CEO is entrenched in a company that is transitioning from 
growth to mature or from mature to declining, and is not adaptable enough to modify the way 
he or she manages the company, it is anegative for value. 
¤ Family group companies composed primarily of companies in the former grouping will 
therefore trade at premiums, whereas family group companies that include a 
disproportionately large number of disrupted or new businesses will be handicapped.
Aswath Damodaran
21
