Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate1for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 1: 
STOCKS ARE RISKY!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Equity Risk: A Market Reminder
¨In bull markets, investors, both professional and 
amateur, often pay lip service to the notion of risk, but 
blithely ignore its relevance in both asset allocation and 
stock selection, convinced that every dip in stock prices 
is a buying opportunity and soothed by bromides that 
stocks always win in the long term. 
¨It is therefore healthy, albeit painful, to be reminded that 
the risk in stocks is real, and that there is a reason why 
investors earn a premium for investing in equities, as 
opposed to safer investments, and that is the message 
that markets around the world delivered in the last 
quarter of 2018.
3
Stocks in 2018
4
Broad Based Pain
5
Some historical Perspective
6
So, why did it feel worse?
1. Spoiled by a bull market: fternine good years for the 
market, investors were lulled into a false sense of 
complacency about the capacity of stocks to keep 
delivering positive returns. 
2. Back ended bad news: The negative returns were all in 
the last quarter of the year, making the hit seem larger 
(from the highs of September 2018) and more 
immediate. 
3. Intraday Price Swings:The intraday and day-to-day 
volatility exacerbated the fear factor, and those 
investors who reacted by trading faced far larger losses.
7
The Equity Risk Premium!
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
At the start of 2018
9
During 2018: Two Periods
10
ERP at the start of 2019
11
Input comparison: 2018 vs 2019
12
Historical Implied ERP
13
The biggest danger: Lower growth
¨While there was almost no talk about a possible 
recession either globally or in the US, at the start of 
2018, some analysts, albeit a minority, are raising 
the possibility that the economy would slow down 
enough to push it into recession, at the start of 
2019.
14
OtherDangers
¨Higher interest rates: There is the possibility that higher inflation 
and economic growth rate can push this number higher, but it is 
difficult to see how this would happen if recession fears pan out. 
¨Pullback on cash flows: In 2018, for instance, dividends and 
buybacks amounted to 92% of aggregate earnings, higher than the 
84.60% paid out, on average, between 2009 and 2018. Assuming 
that the payout will adjust over time to 85.07%, reflecting expected 
long term growth, lowers the ERP to 5.55%, still well above 
historical levels.
¨Political and Economic Crises: The trade war and the Brexit mess 
will play out this year and each has the potential to scare markets 
enough to justify the higher ERP that we are observing. In addition, 
it goes without saying that there will be at least a crisis or two that 
are not on the radar right now that will hit markets, an unwanted 
side effect of globalization.
15
Bottom Line
¨It is better to be transparently wrong than opaquely 
right, when making investment forecasts. 
¨In keeping with my own advice, I believe that stocks are 
more likely to go up in 2019, than down, given the 
information that I have now. 
¨That said, if I am wrong, it will be because I have under 
estimated how much economic growth will slow in the 
coming year and the magnitude of economic crises. 
¨Odds are that I will see the tell tale signs too late to 
protect myself fully against any resulting market 
corrections, but that is not my game anyway.
