Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/AIBusiness.pdf

Change is easy, making moneyoff change is difficult!
2
§In a world where AI enters almost every conversation, it takes 
effort to remember that its breakout moment was less than four 
years ago, when, on November 30, 2022, ChatGPT wasunveiled 
to the public.
§Artificial intelligence has been around a lot longer, with a 
history tracing back to the birth of the computer age. I am old 
enough to remember IBM'sDeep Blue,a machine powerful 
enough to evaluate two hundred million chess positions per 
secondand beat the greatest chess players of its time. 
§On the cultural front, we have seen variants of stories, where 
machines break free from human control and take over the 
world, in novels and movies, with Hal (the computer) in2001: A 
Space Odysseyretorting "I'm afraid I can't do that" to Dave, his 
human controller, remaining one of my favorite movie lines of 
all time.
3
§Notwithstanding its longer history, the effect on AI has been 
explosive in the last four years, manifesting in multiple 
developments. 
§The most successful company during this period, in terms of increasing 
market capitalization, has been Nvidia, the chip maker for the AI 
revolution. 
§After spending a decade talking about FANGAM, the big tech 
companies that had become part of our daily lives while carrying 
equity markets forward over the last decade, it was the Mag Seven 
that became the stand-in for market dominance, with Tesla and 
Nvidia replacing Netflix in the mix and  accounted for 45% of the 
increase in market cap across all US stocks between 2022 and 2025, and 
have an aggregate market cap on August 16, 2026, of $23.7 trillion. 
§It is not just markets that are besotted with AI, since the massive 
investments in AI architecture, from data centers to large language 
models (LLMs) have carried the US economy; it is estimated that 
these investmentsaccounted for about 1%of the 2.5% in real GDP 
growth in 2024 and 2025. Almost every conversation of businesses now 
has an AI component, which if not restrained, can hijack the discussion.
4
§AI's effects were not restricted to business and markets, as 
people were exposed to its reach in their personal and work 
lives, with reactions ranging from 
§awe, at its power to do tasks that used to require skilled human 
labor, not just effectively, but in a fraction of the time, to 
§dread, at the possibility of being made obsolete by an AI agent. 
§As the arc of the AI story has unfolded over the last four years, it 
seems to me that is has also transitioned in the public 
consciousness from a mostly positive phenomenon early 
on to acquiring a negative tinge, perhaps because of 
concerns that the genie is out of the bottle, and is not benign, 
and partly because some of its leading spokespeople are so 
unlikeable.
5
§The debate about AI, in my view, has gone off thetrack with 
advocates and skeptics often talking past each other, with 
advocates focusing on its "huge" potential market, and skeptics 
zeroing in on massive upfront investments as "too large", with each 
side claiming the high ground and labeling the other side as 
cultists (AI advocates) or Luddites (AI skeptics). 
§This post is not about proving one side right and the other 
wrong, but about closing the loop and making it a discussion of 
AI as a business, recognizing that it is ground breaking, while also 
acknowledging that it has tobe judged like every other business 
in history, not on potential usage, but on the prosaic details of 
business-bulding.
§I will be writing this as an AI novice, a very light user of ChatGPT 
(I still have only the free version) and acquainted with Claude only 
in passing (though my content has found its way into some of its 
bots). To be honest, I am writing this post for an audience of one 
(me), with the purpose of clarifying for myself how to make 
sense of this space, and if it does help you make sense of this 
disruption, it is a side benefit.
6
7
§ChatGPT, as I noted at the start of this post, may have been 
low-tech AI, but it got the hype cycle rolling, and social media 
amplified and accelerated that rollout, and its broad reach 
meant that almost everyone has seen it at work. 
§The hope that AI's popularity and reach would create a big 
market built up in parallel, with capital flowing into firms in 
its sphere(as well as wannabes that latched on to it, as a 
buzzword), pushing the market capitalizations of the companies 
building AI's architecture (computer chips, LLMs, power and 
water companies, cloud) into the trillions of dollars, funded 
with equity and debt. 
§It was not just financial market participants that saw its allure, as 
hyper scalers and new entrants invested hundreds of 
billions into AI cap ex, partly because they believed in its 
promise, but partly out of a fear of missing out.
8
9
10
§It is true that the value of a business is tied to how big a market 
there is for its products and services, but it is also true that this 
metric, converted into an acronym (TAM) has become a 
gaming tool in the hands of founders, venture capitalists and 
bankers. 
§In my SpaceX valuation, where xAIis the primary AI business, I 
noted that bankers estimated a total addressable market (TAM) 
of $22 trillion for xAI, which I felt was more hallucination 
than estimate. 
§That said, any discussion of AI as a business has tostart 
with the total market question, and it is worth starting that 
discussion with an examination of where we are right now in 
terms of revenues from AI products and services.
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
§Accepting the premise that AI products and services will have a 
big market, in terms of revenues, is just the first step in 
structuring its business argument.
§I will focus on converting those revenues into profitability, by 
first looking at the business models that AI producers can 
consider adopting, with pluses and minuses, as well as unit 
economics and economies of scale, measuring what it will 
cost companies to produce the AI products that they are selling.
20
21
§There is an open and vigorous debate going on in AI circles as to whether 
the AI businesses shouldoffer clients and customersopen models (where 
clients can modify, adapt and build on the models) or closed 
models(where they are not allowed to do so). 
§This debate is complicated because there are multiple forces that come 
into play including how power in this space is concentrated (with closed 
models giving its makers more power), how much privacy they offer 
(where the argument is that open models require less sharing of private 
data) and how safe they are (where it is posited that open models can be 
more easily hacked and turned into disinformation). 
§All that said, there is clearly a business economics twist to this debate. 
§Closed models give the companies that sell them more pricing power 
(higher margins) and perhaps are stickier (making it difficult to switch away), 
because they are customized, but they require more resources to build and 
maintain (higher costs) and may work only with premium products. 
§As with subscription versus usage models, you are likely to see divergence, 
with companies targeting the premium market more likely to stay with 
closed models and those building more workhorse applications trying their 
hand at open models.
22
•In mass market AI, where AI tools are basic and don't need power boosts, 
you should expect costs for AI products to go down. 
•In the premium market, where you are building AI products either as tools 
on high-end tasks or as replacement for highly priced labor, the costs will 
be tougher to reduce, if each upgrade in product power puts demands on 
the inputs.
23
24
§Inmass market AI, where products and services are 
standardized and basic, you should expect competitive 
advantages to flow from unit costs being lower at a company 
than at its competitors, either because of scale (with bigger 
companies having an advantage) or proprietary access to data.
§Inpremium AI, where products are customized, powerful and 
pricey, you should expect the winners to be companies that 
have the technological know-how to craft these products, 
while bringing the costs of delivering power under control. 
In addition, products that are built around client data, 
especially if the client is protective of that data, will become 
stickier and more difficult to displace, giving companies that 
make them more pricing power for a longer period.
25
§Does having the people perceived as the smartest in the AI 
space working for you give you a competitive advantage? 
§At the moment, the answer seems to be yes, and you saw this 
phenomenon at play when Jeff Dean, chief scientist at Google 
DeepMind (its AI entity), left the company in 2026 to create his own 
AI start-up, and themarket reacted by knocking Alphabet's market 
cap down by 5.4%(more than $100 billion). 
§In the same vein, the AI firms (especially Anthropic and OpenAI) 
have been raiding universities for theircomputer science and 
technology talent,with someAI-focused economiststhrown into the 
mix and even afew philosophers. 
§I think that the attention paid to these people hires and 
departures are indicative of how young this industry is, and 
how much its success will depend on building products right 
and marketing them to the right customers, and as it matures, I 
expect this factor to fade in prominence.
26
§Is there a potential brand name advantage? Put simply, would you 
be willing to pay a premium price for a Claude agent over an AI 
agent crafted by a different company? 
§The answer is still being worked out, because in addition to all of 
the business elements of this choice (product power, 
reliability),trustis a factor, since client companies are giving AI 
products access to secrets and data. 
§It should come as no surprise then that AI companies are all 
competing in the virtue space, where each one puts itself out as 
more trustworthy and caring about public good than the next one. 
§It may be cynical of me, but when I hear Dario Amodei or Sam 
Altman wax eloquent about how they plan to protect the world 
from the dark side of AI, I feel the urge to quote Shakespeare, and 
say "thou doth protest too much". Actions speak louder than words, 
and trust will ultimately be based more on how these 
companies behave than on the philosophical treatises that 
they publish.
27
§Real estate footprint and resource usage: AI, in terms of the investment 
footprint it is creating, is closer to the railroads in their early years than it is 
to any technology company. Like railroads, AI requires data centers that 
sprawl over huge areas, and unlike railroads, many of these areas have 
people living in them, whose lives will be altered by the presence of these 
centers. 
§Data privacy and power: Earlier in this post, I pointed to privacy as one of 
the dividing lines in the choice between open and closed AI models, but 
that is a small part of a broader question, which is about data being 
accumulated by and mined at AI companies. 
§People displacement: Going back to the discussion of the total market for 
AI, I noted that the best-case scenarios for AI, i.e., the scenarios where the 
market for AI products and services will be greatest, are also scenarios 
where there will be not just be significant job loss, but losses in high-
paying jobs. 
§Income equality and fairness: There is a suspicion that AI will make this 
divide wider, and that suspicion will only intensify with each AI company 
that goes public. SpaceX, when it went public at a market capitalization of 
close to $2 trillion created a host of centi-millionaires (worth more than 
$100 million) and the same phenomenon will play out when Anthropic and 
OpenAI hit the market.
28
§Data centers will get more expensive to build, and power and water 
will be more tightly rationed, leading to companies having to 
spend both more on their upfront and capital expenditures, and as 
costs in generating AI products.
§As concerns about data mount, there will inevitably be scandals 
around the misuse of data, and those scandals will lead, as they did 
at social media companies, totighter restrictions on the use of data 
and higher costs is acquiring and protecting that data.
§The worries about being replaced by AI agents will create counter 
movements,starting with system requirements that preserve jobs 
for humans (even if AI makes what they do obsolete) and in some 
countries, requirements that their employers continue to pay 
displaced employees for extended periods, in the event of layoffs.
§If AI creates its own cache of billionaires and centi-millionaires,the 
push towards wealth taxes, no matter what you may think about their 
effectiveness or fairness, will intensify, as will the creation of new 
tiers in the tax table for higher incomes, and perhaps for AI 
income.
29
§This post has focused on AI as a business, and if your interest is 
in valuing an enterprise in the space, whether publicly traded 
like SpaceX or Alphabet or privately owned, you may wonder 
how it helps you in that endeavor. 
§There are two ways you can approach these valuations. 
§In the first, you can start with the market capitalization (actual in the 
case of publicly traded companies and estimated in the case of 
private businesses) and examine what you would need in terms 
of end revenues and profit margins to justify the market 
capitalization. 
§In the second, you can start with the company that you are valuing, 
and lay out a roadmap for that company in terms of product 
choices (premium or mass market, open or closed) and 
estimate what it will be able to deliver in terms of revenues, 
profits and cashflows over its lifetime.
30
31
§With Anthropic,for instance, where the rumored pricing for the 
IPO is $2 trillion, allowing the company premium pricing margins 
(after-tax operating margin of 30%) and above-average risk (cost 
of capital of 10%), the company will have to generate close to 
$1.2 trillion in revenues, if the AI market matures in ten years, 
and close to $2 trillion, if the wait is 15 years. 
§In fact, you can consider AI companies in the aggregate, by 
adding up the market capitalizations of companies that are already 
public (or at least the portion of the revenues that come from AI) as 
well as the rumored pricing of companies like OpenAI and 
Anthropic, waiting to go public, and going through the same 
exercise. Using an aggregated market pricing of $5 trillion 
(probably a conservative judgment, given the VC pricing of 
hundreds of companies in the space) attached to all AI product 
and service companies, and assigning a blended operating margin 
of 20% for the industry, the revenues that you would need for the 
entire business to breakeven would be $5 trillion, with a 10-
year wait, and more than $8 trillion, if the wait is 15 years.
32
§Product choice and market focus: If the AI market splits into premium and mass-market product market, 
the first step in valuing any company in this space will be tomake a judgment on which of these markets 
the company will target,andhow much of its revenues will come each of the segments.
§Unit economics and economies of scale at company: The choice of market segment matters because the 
unit economics and economies of scale you assume for the company will have to be consistent. AI 
companies that offer mass market products will charge lower prices, with a greater percentage of 
revenues coming from subscriptions, but will benefit more quickly from improving unit economics, as the 
cost of AI tokens continues to fall. In contrast, AI companies that target premium markets, will earn higher 
profit margins and have stronger moats, but struggle more with unit economics, as token usage increases 
with product power.
§Competitive advantages and moats: The types of competitive advantages (moats) that the company you 
are valuing will seek out, and lock in, if successful, will also vary depending on the targeted market, with 
cost advantages and scale working in the company's favor, with mass markets, and technological edges 
and product stickiness being more sought after, with premium products.
§Investment needed to deliver growth: While AI companies are more capital intensive than their tech 
counterparts, the additional reinvestment needed to deliver value can be altered by investments already 
made by a company. Companies that have built capacity in advance of growth will be worth more than 
companies that will have to reinvest contemporaneously to deliver growth, and companies that find ways 
to invest more efficiently will also have higher value. 
§Regulatory constraints (current and in the future):To the extent that regulators and governments have a 
great deal at stake, the value of a company can be affected by where it operates geographically and the 
rules and regulations that govern AI products in that geography.
33
§I noted that I was writing this post for myself, because like many in 
this space, I was finding myself pulled in a dozen different 
directions on AI, and desperately in need of a framework for 
thinking about the AI business. 
§This is my first try at trying to create a comprehensive framework, 
and I am sure that there are elements that I have missed and holes 
in my thinking, but it is a start. 
§I am clear eyed about what this AI framework will not and will do for 
me; it will not tell me what the TAM for AI products and services 
will be or whether Anthropic is worth $ 2 trillion, but it will allow 
me to determine that a $22 trillion TAM for AI is fiction and that 
having your ARR grow 80% a year last year is not even close to 
being a rationale for why you should buy Anthropic at any price.
§As you work your way through the framework, there will be room 
for significant disagreement on the reach of AI and its value as a 
business and anyone who claims to have conviction that they 
know what's coming is being either ignorant or arrogant.
