Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch1.pdf

A SEARCH FOR A 
UNIFYING THEORY
Aswath Damodaran
§It is the dream of researchers and 
practitioners to create a construct that 
explains all observed behavior whatever 
area they work in. 
§In the physical sciences, that search is 
abetted by nature, which imposes its order 
on phenomena. 
§In the social sciences, the search has been 
less focused, partly because human 
behavior does not always follow predictable 
patterns. 
§It is easy to understand why we search for 
universal theories that explain everything, 
since they offer the promise of restoring 
order to chaos, but that search comes with 
risk. 
§The most significant risk is overreach, 
where sensible theories get pushed to 
breaking point. 
§The second is bias, as a theory’ s most ardent 
supporters become selective in their 
assessment of evidence, choosing to see 
only what they want to in the data. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§With an abundance of data (market and 
company-level) that has been easy to 
access for decades, you could argue that 
finance discovered big data well before 
the rest of the world caught on to its allure. 
§In 1992, Famaand French looked at returns 
on all US stocks between 1962 and 1990 and 
noted that a significant portion of the 
variation in annual returns across stocks, 
during this period, could be explained by 
two characteristics, their market 
capitalizationsand their book to market 
equity ratios.
§By 2019, there were over 400 factors that 
had been identified as explaining price 
movements and differences in returns in 
major finance journals, leading some 
researchers to coin the term the “factor 
zoo” and argue that most of these 
“market-explaining” factors are more 
attributable to data mining than to 
market behavior.
Aswath Damodaran
§In the 1970s, Kahneman and Tversky initiated 
this trend by incorporating well established 
patterns in human behavior into markets to 
provide explanations for phenomena and 
behavior that had either been unexplainable 
or treated as anomalous.  
§In the decades since, behavioral finance has 
found its way to the heart of finance, with 
Richard Thaler, Robert Shiller and a host of 
others extending its reach to explain business 
and investor decision making. 
§However, for much of its existence, albeit with 
exceptions, behavioral finance has had two 
problems. 
§The first is that it has expended more resources 
in explaining past investor and business 
behavior than in providing prescriptive solutions 
for either group. 
§The second is as with data-driven approaches, 
where data mining has led to a proliferation of 
factors, the number of behavioral quirks that 
have been identified in investing has also 
exploded.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Accounting researchers, for instance, 
have used the corporate life cycle to 
explain how accounting ratios measuring 
leverage and profitability change over 
the life cycle, and used that evidence to 
provide measurement metrics. 
§Corporate governance researchers 
have found evidence that corporate 
governance challenges are greater for 
young firmsand that governance 
practices improve as they mature. 
§In valuation, we have used the 
corporate life cycle construct to examine 
why the challenges in valuationcan be 
different for companies at different 
stages, and how to adapt valuation 
models to meet these challenges. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Corporate finance lays out the first 
financial principles that govern how to run 
a business, and every decision that a 
business makes falls under its purview. 
§We look at the investment decision in more 
detail, across the life cycle, examining both 
how investment type and investment 
challenges vary, as companies age. 
§We examine the trade-off that determines 
how much a business should borrow and 
how the mix and type of financing changes 
as companies age. 
§We describe the process that can be used to 
determine how much cash a business can 
return, and then apply it to evaluate how 
much cash (if any) a business should return, 
given its place in the life cycle. 
§Along the way, we examine the 
consequences for businesses that choose 
to adopt corporate financial policies that 
at are at odds with their ages. 
Aswath Damodaran
§The value of a business is always a 
function of the expected cash flows 
investors will receive from the business 
and the uncertainty that they will 
receive those cash flows. 
§That universal truth, though, can play 
out very differently across the life 
cycle,requiringdifferent skill sets as 
companies go from start-ups to high 
growth to middle age to decline.
§Rather than invent new models and 
metrics, we use the same models and 
make our adjustments on what inputs 
we spend our time estimating, and how 
we adapt to the estimation process to 
reflect the challenges at each stage.
Aswath Damodaran
§Investors invest in stocks because they 
want to earn high returns on their 
investments, while protecting, as best as 
they can, against downside risks, but that 
is perhaps the only thing they have in 
common, since investors come in with 
very different views on how markets work 
(or fail to work), leading to them targeting 
very different types of stocks in their 
portfolio. 
§We will look at how different investment 
philosophies (value, growth, trading) 
focus on companies in different stages 
of the life cycle, and and why they can 
co-exist in a market.
§We hope to show why no one investment 
philosophy can claim to be the “best” 
one, since each one requires different 
mindsets and skills, to be successful, as 
well as how your choice of investment 
philosophy will lead you to target firms in 
very different phases of the life cycle. 
Aswath Damodaran
§While there is a tendency in both 
academia and practice to assume that 
there is one prototype for a great CEO, 
the corporate life cycle pushes back. 
§The skills and personality traits you 
would like to see in the top manager(s) 
of a growth company with be very 
different from those that you would look 
for in the top manager(s) in a mature or 
declining company.  
§We also look at the special challenges 
of running a business in decline and 
trying to decide the right path from 
denial to acceptance to a reach for 
reincarnation.
Aswath Damodaran
