Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/eqnotes/PG/ProcterGamble10K.pdf

PROCTER & GAMBLE CO  (PG)
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 10-K  
 Annual report pursuant to section 13 and 15(d)
Filed on 08/08/2012
Filed Period 06/30/2012
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
Form 10-K
(Mark one)
[x]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2012
OR
[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to
Commission File No. 1-434
THE PROCTER & GAMBLE COMPANY
One Procter & Gamble Plaza, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Telephone (513) 983-1100
IRS Employer Identification No. 31-0411980
State of Incorporation: Ohio
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
            Title of each class      Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, without Par Value  New York Stock Exchange, NYSE Euronext-Paris
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes o No þ
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No o
    
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes þ No o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. þ 
  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Large accelerated filer þ      Accelerated filer o    Non-accelerated filer o     Smaller reporting company o
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes o     No þ 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates amounted to $184 billion on December 31, 2011.
There were 2,754,274,536 shares of Common Stock outstanding as of July 31, 2012.
Documents Incorporated by Reference
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders which will be filed within one hundred and twenty days of the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (2012 Proxy Statement) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report to the extent described
herein.
The Procter & Gamble Company 2 
PART I
Item 1. Business.
Additional information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A);
Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies; and Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements, Segment Information. Unless the context indicates otherwise,
the terms the "Company," "P&G," "we," "our" or "us" as used herein refer
to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries.
The Procter & Gamble Company is focused on providing
branded consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to improve
the lives of the world's consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio
in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William
Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than
180 countries.
Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference
information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).
The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, are
filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that
contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov. You can also access these
reports through links from our website at: www.pg.com/investors.
Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by
contacting The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services
Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.
Financial Information about Segments
As of June 30, 2012, the Company is organized into two Global
Business Units (GBUs): Beauty and Grooming and Household Care. We
have five reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty; Grooming;
Health Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care.
Many of the factors necessary for understanding these businesses are
similar. Operating margins of the individual businesses vary due to the
nature of materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the
capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by
business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of
the markets and product categories in which they operate. While none of
our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components within certain
reportable segments, such as Batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care),
Appliances (Grooming) and Prestige Fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In
addition, anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes,
can drive
 
unusually high demand for batteries.
Additional information about our reportable segments can be
found in MD&A and Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements,
Segment Information.
Narrative Description of Business
Business Model. Our business model relies on the continued
growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation
of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our
products are highly competitive. Our products are sold in more than 180
countries around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery
stores, membership club stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and
in high-frequency stores, the neighborhood stores which serve many
consumers in developing markets. We work collaboratively with our
customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the
"first moment of truth" - when a consumer is shopping in the store. We
must also win the "second moment of truth" - when a consumer uses the
product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and decides
whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new,
innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our
business. Research and product development activities, designed to enable
sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past
fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be
realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our
commitment to future growth.
Key Product Categories. Information on key product categories
can be found in Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment
Information.
Key Customers. Our customers include mass merchandisers,
grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency
stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent
approximately 14%, 15% and 16% of our total revenue in 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net
sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 31% of our total
unit volume in 2012, and 32% of our total unit volume in 2011 and 2010.
The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts
with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital
items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments
in which we compete.
Sources and Availability of Materials. Almost all of the raw
and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others,
some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw materials,
primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In
addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important
commodities consumed in our manufacturing process and in
3 The Procter & Gamble Company
the distribution of input materials and finished product to customers. The
prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to
fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass
the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected
duration of the change. The Company purchases a substantial variety of
other raw and packaging materials, none of which is material to our
business taken as a whole.
Trademarks and Patents. We own or have licenses under
patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our
activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant
product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The
trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our
products. All major products and trademarks in each business are
registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and
continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.
Competitive Condition. The markets in which our products are
sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products
of many large and small companies, including well-known global
competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which we sell
our products, we compete against other branded products as well as
retailers' private-label brands. We are well positioned in the industry
segments and markets in which we operate -often holding a leadership or
significant market share position. We support our products with advertising,
promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in
conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination
provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products.
Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important
competitive factors.
Research and Development Expenditures. Research and
development expenditures enable us to develop technologies and obtain
patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and improve the
lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2.0
billion in 2012 and 2011, and $1.9 billion in 2010.
 
Expenditures for Environmental Compliance. Expenditures
for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the
Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2013.
Employees. Total number of employees is an estimate of total
Company employees excluding interns, co-ops and employees of joint
ventures. Historical numbers include employees of discontinued operations.
 
 
 Total Number of Employees
2012 126,000
2011 129,000
2010 127,000
2009 132,000
2008 135,000
2007 135,000
Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations
Net sales in the United States account for approximately 35% of
total net sales. No other individual country exceeded 10% of total net sales.
Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the
same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may
be affected by additional factors including changing currency values,
different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic
uncertainties and disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years
ended June 30 were as follows:
 2012  2011  2010
North America (1) 39%  41%  42%
Western Europe 19%  20%  20%
Asia 18%  16%  15%
Latin America 10%  9%  9%
CEEMEA (2) 14%  14%  14%
(1) North America includes results for the United States and Canada only.
(2) CEEMEA includes Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and
Africa.
Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows
(in billions):
 United States International
Net Sales (for the year ended June 30)
2012 $29.5 $54.2
2011 $29.9 $51.2
2010 $29.5 $48.1
   
Assets (as of June 30)
2012 $68.0 $64.2
2011 $70.3 $68.1
2010 $70.1 $58.1
Item 1A. Risk Factors.
The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most
significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations,
financial position or future financial performance. This information should
be read in conjunction with MD&A and the consolidated financial
statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The
The Procter & Gamble Company 4 
following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight
what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our
expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from
those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends.
A material change in consumer demand for our products could have a
significant impact on our business.
    
We are a consumer products company and rely on continued
global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we
must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. This is dependent
on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales,
advertising and marketing programs. We expect to achieve our financial
targets, in part, by shifting our portfolio towards faster growing, higher
margin businesses and by focusing on the most profitable businesses,
biggest innovations and most important emerging markets. We expect to
achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate growth
in developing regions. If demand for our products and/or market growth
rates in either developed or developing markets fall substantially below
expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these
businesses, our volume, and consequently our results, could be negatively
impacted. This could occur due to, among other things, unforeseen negative
economic or political events, changes in consumer trends and habits, or
negative consumer responses to pricing actions.
The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well
we can compete with our local and global competitors in new and
existing markets and channels.
The consumer products industry is highly competitive. Across all
of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local
competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive pressures in the
environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining
profit margins. This includes, among other things, increasing competition
from mid- and lower-tier value products in both developed and developing
markets. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully
respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives
and trade terms. In addition, the emergence of new sales channels, such as
sales made through the Internet directly to consumers, may affect customer
and consumer preferences, as well as market dynamics. Failure to
effectively compete in these new channels could negatively impact results.
Our ability to meet our growth targets depends on successful product
and operations innovation and our ability to successfully respond to
competitive innovation.
Achieving our business results depends, in part, on the successful
development, introduction and marketing of new products and
improvements to our equipment and manufacturing processes. Successful
innovation depends on
 
our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to
obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property protections, and to
avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We must also be
able to successfully respond to technological advances by and intellectual
property rights granted to competition, and failure to do so could
compromise our competitive position and impact our results.
Our businesses face cost fluctuations and pressures which could affect
our business results.
Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes
in commodity prices, raw materials, labor costs, energy costs, pension and
healthcare costs, foreign exchange and interest rates. Therefore, our success
is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to forecast and manage these
fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects (including
outsourcing projects) and sourcing decisions, while maintaining and
improving margins and market share. In addition, our financial projections
include cost savings described in our announced productivity plan. Failure
to deliver these savings could adversely impact our results.
There are risks inherent in global manufacturing which could
negatively impact our business results.
In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to
maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key
sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements, to achieve our
targets on cost. While we have business continuity and contingency plans
for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, significant
disruption of manufacturing, such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of
key manufacturing sites, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and
other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt
product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our
business.
We face risks associated with having significant international
operations.
We are a global company, with manufacturing operations in
more than 40 countries, and a significant portion of our revenue is outside
the U.S. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks,
including, but not limited to:
• compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the
United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;
• compliance with a variety of local regulations and laws;
• changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws;
• sudden changes in foreign currency exchange controls;
• discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies;
• difficulties enforcing intellectual property and
5 The Procter & Gamble Company
contractual rights in certain jurisdictions;
• greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection
cycles;
• effective and immediate implementation of control environment
processes across our diverse operations and employee base;
and
• imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and
similar restrictions on our sales outside the United States.
We have sizable businesses and maintain local currency cash
balances in a number of foreign countries with exchange controls,
including, but not limited to, Venezuela, China and India. In addition, some
countries where we have businesses, such as Argentina, have introduced
import restrictions. Our results of operations and/or financial condition
could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these
and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile
environment.
Fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our
business results or financial condition.
We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay
expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our
consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial
statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States are translated into
U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant
portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore
adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also the
Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the MD&A and
Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
We face risks related to changes in the global and political economic
environment, including the global capital and credit markets.
Our business is impacted by global economic conditions, which
have recently been volatile. Our products are sold in more than 180
countries around the world. If the global economy experiences significant
disruptions, our business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand
for our products related to a slow-down in the general economy, supplier or
customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets, temporary
interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions through our
financial intermediaries involving the payment to or collection of funds
from our customers, vendors and suppliers and/or liquidity issues resulting
from an inability to access credit markets to obtain cash to support
operations.
Our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with
ready access to global capital and credit markets. Any downgrade of our
current credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our future
borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets
on terms commercially acceptable to us. 
 
We could also be negatively impacted by political crises in
individual countries or regions, including sovereign risk related to a
deterioration in the credit worthiness or a default by local governments. For
example, we could be adversely impacted by continued instability in the
banking and governmental sectors of certain countries in the European
Union such as Greece, or the negative impact on economic growth resulting
from the combination of federal income tax increases and government
spending restrictions potentially occurring at the end of calendar year 2012
in the United States (commonly referred to as the “fiscal cliff”).
Consequently, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to
manage continued global and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our
significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic
disruption. These risks could negatively impact our overall liquidity and
financing and borrowing costs, as well as our ability to collect receipts due
from governments, including refunds of value added taxes, and/or create
significant credit risks relative to our local customers and depository
institutions.
If the reputation of the Company or one or more of our brands erodes
significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results.
The Company's reputation is the foundation of our relationships
with key stakeholders and other constituencies, such as customers and
suppliers. In addition, many of our brands have worldwide recognition.
This recognition is the result of the large investments we have made in our
products over many years. The quality and safety of our products is critical
to our business. Our Company also devotes significant time and resources
to programs designed to protect and preserve our reputation, such as social
responsibility and environmental sustainability. If we are unable to
effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about
safety, quality, efficacy, or similar matters, these issues could negatively
impact sentiments toward the Company or our products, our ability to
operate freely could be impaired and our financial results could suffer. Our
financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, and the
success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product
initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand's image or its ability to
attract consumers. Our results could also be negatively impacted if one of
our brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to a
significant product recall, product-related litigation, allegations of product
tampering, or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products. In addition,
given the association of our individual products with the Company, an issue
with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of our other
products, or the Company as a whole, thereby potentially hurting results.
Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change
could impact our business results.
We have executed a number of significant business
The Procter & Gamble Company 6 
and organizational changes including acquisitions, divestitures and
workforce optimization projects to support our growth strategies. We
expect these types of changes to continue for the foreseeable future.
Successfully managing these changes, including retention of key
employees, is critical to our business success. Further, ongoing business
and organizational changes are likely to result in more reliance on third
parties for various services, and that reliance may increase reputational,
operational, and compliance risks, including the risk of corruption. We are
generally a build-from-within company, and our success is dependent on
identifying, developing and retaining key employees to provide
uninterrupted leadership and direction for our business. This includes
developing organization capabilities in key growth markets where the depth
of skilled employees is limited and competition for these resources is
intense. Finally, our financial targets assume a consistent level of
productivity improvement. If we are unable to deliver expected productivity
improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial
results could be adversely impacted.
Our ability to successfully manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture,
and divestiture activities could impact our business results.
As a company that manages a portfolio of consumer brands, our
ongoing business model involves a certain level of acquisition, joint venture
and divestiture activities. We must be able to successfully manage the
impacts of these activities, while at the same time delivering against our
business objectives. Specifically, our financial results could be adversely
impacted if: 1) we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth
synergies associated with our acquisitions and joint ventures, 2) changes in
the cash flows or other market-based assumptions cause the value of
acquired assets to fall below book value, or 3) we are unable to offset the
dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with divested brands.
Additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control
over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal,
operational, and/or compliance risks associated with each joint venture we
enter into.
Our business is subject to changes in legislation, regulation and
enforcement, and our ability to manage and resolve pending legal
matters in the United States and abroad.
Changes in laws, regulations and related interpretations,
including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements and
increased enforcement actions and penalties may alter the environment in
which we do business. As a U.S. based multinational company we are
subject to tax regulations in the United States and multiple foreign
jurisdictions, some of which are interdependent. For example, certain
income that is earned and taxed in countries outside the United States is not
taxed in the United States, provided those earnings are indefinitely
reinvested outside
 
the United States. If these or other tax regulations should change, our
financial results could be impacted.
In addition, our ability to manage regulatory, environmental, tax
and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and other intellectual
property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant
liability may materially impact our results of operations and financial
position. Furthermore, if pending legal matters, including the competition
law and antitrust investigations described in Item 3 of this Form 10-K and
Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Commitments and
Contingencies, result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to
date, that could materially impact our results of operations and financial
position.
There are increasing calls in the United States from members of
leadership in both major U.S. political parties for “comprehensive tax
reform” which may significantly change the income tax rules that are
applicable to U.S. domiciled corporations, such as P&G.   It is very difficult
to assess whether the overall effect of such potential legislation would be
cumulatively positive or negative for P&G's earnings and cash flows.
A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand
for our products could have a significant impact on our business.
We sell most of our products via retail customers, which consist
of mass merchandisers, grocery stores, club stores, drug stores and high-
frequency stores. Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully
manage relationships with our retail trade customers. This includes our
ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are
aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer
if we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms
and principles. Our business would be negatively impacted if a key
customer were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our
products.
Consolidation among our retail customers could create
significant cost and margin pressure and lead to more complex work across
broader geographic boundaries for both us and our key retailers. This would
be particularly challenging if major customers are addressing local trade
pressures, local law and regulation changes, or financial distress.
A failure of one or more key information technology systems,
networks, processes, associated sites or service providers could have a
material adverse impact on our business or reputation.
We rely extensively on information technology (IT) systems,
networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting and processing
facilities and tools, and other hardware, software and technical applications
and platforms, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used
by
7 The Procter & Gamble Company
third-parties or their vendors, to assist in conducting our business. The
various uses of these IT systems, networks, and services include, but are not
limited to:
• ordering and managing materials from suppliers;
• converting materials to finished products;
• shipping product to customers;
• marketing and selling products to consumers;
• collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor,
and other stakeholder information and personal data;
• processing transactions;
• summarizing and reporting results of operations;
• hosting, processing, and sharing confidential and proprietary
research, business plans, and financial information;
• complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements;
• providing data security; and
• handling other processes necessary to manage our business.
Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated computer
crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the
security of our IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the
confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. If the IT systems,
networks, or service providers we rely upon fail to function properly, or if
we suffer a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to
any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to
security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively
address these failures on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our
ability to manage operations and reputational, competitive and/or business
harm, which may adversely impact our results of operations and/or
financial condition.
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.
None.
Item 2. Properties.
In the U.S., we own and operate 33 manufacturing facilities
located in 21 different states or territories. In addition, we own and operate
103 manufacturing facilities in 41 other countries. Many of the domestic
and international facilities produce products for multiple businesses. Beauty
products are manufactured at 41 of these locations; Grooming products at
16; Fabric Care and Home Care products at 61; Baby Care and Family Care
products at 31; and Health Care products at 33. Management believes that
the Company's production facilities are adequate to support the business
efficiently and that the properties and equipment have been well
maintained.
Item 3. Legal Proceedings.
The Company is subject, from time to time, to certain legal
proceedings and claims arising out of our business, which cover a wide
range of matters, including
 
antitrust and trade regulation, product liability, advertising, contracts,
environmental issues, patent and trademark matters, labor and employment
matters and tax.
As previously reported, the Company has had a number of
antitrust cases in Europe. The Company's policy is to comply with all laws
and regulations, including all antitrust and competition laws, and to
cooperate with the relevant regulatory authorities, which the Company is
doing. In response to the actions of the regulatory authorities, the Company
launched its own internal investigations into potential violations of
competition laws. The Company identified violations in certain European
countries and appropriate actions were taken.
As a result of certain investigations that were previously
disclosed, several authorities issued separate complaints alleging that the
Company, along with several other companies, engaged in violations of
competition laws in the past. The Company resolved several of these
matters prior to or during fiscal year 2012.
The Company has remaining antitrust matters at various stages of
the regulatory process in Belgium, France, Germany and Greece, while
other countries have issued decisions, many of which are on appeal. All of
these matters involve a number of other consumer products companies
and/or retail customers. Competition and antitrust violations often continue
for several years and, if violations are found, can result in substantial fines.
No non-monetary sanctions are being sought in these matters.
For certain of the remaining matters listed above, we have
established accruals for potential fines and we do not expect any significant
incremental fines or costs in excess of amounts accrued for these matters.
For other remaining matters, we cannot reasonably estimate any fines to
which the Company may be subject as a result of the investigations. Please
refer to the Company's Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K
for additional information.
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure
Not Applicable.
The Procter & Gamble Company 8 
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The names, ages and positions held by the Executive Officers of the Company on August 8, 2012, are:
 
Name   Position   Age   First Elected to
Officer Position
Robert A. McDonald   Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer
  59   1999
   Director since July 1, 2009       
    
Jon R. Moeller   Chief Financial Officer   48   2009
    
Werner Geissler   Vice Chairman-Global Operations   59   2007
    
E. Dimitri Panayotopoulos   Vice Chairman-Global Business Units   60   2007
    
Bruce Brown   Chief Technology Officer   54   2008
    
Robert L. Fregolle, Jr.    Global Customer Business Development Officer   55   2009
    
Deborah P. Majoras   Chief Legal Officer and Secretary   48   2010
    
Moheet Nagrath   Global Human Resources Officer   53   2008
    
Filippo Passerini   Group President-Global Business Services and
Chief Information Officer
  55   2003
    
Marc S. Pritchard   Global Brand Building Officer   52   2008
    
Valarie L. Sheppard   Senior Vice President & Comptroller   48   2005
       
Ioannis Skoufalos  Global Product Supply Officer  55  2011
All of the Executive Officers named above, excluding Ms. Majoras, have been employed by the Company for more than five years. Ms. Majoras held the
following positions within the Company during the past five years: Chief Legal Officer and Secretary (February 1, 2010 - present), Vice President and
General Counsel (June 24, 2008 - January 31, 2010). Ms. Majoras was Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission from 2004 until joining the Company in
2008.
9 The Procter & Gamble Company
PART II
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
Period   Total Number of
Shares Purchased (1 )
 Average Price
Paid per Share  (2)
  Total Number of
Shares Purchased as
Part of Publicly
Announced Plans or
Programs (3)
  Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet be Purchased Under our Share
Repurchase Program
4/1/2012 - 4/30/2012  235   $66.95  0  0
5/1/2012 - 5/31/2012  0   0  0  0
6/1/2012 - 6/30/2012  0   0  0  0
(1) The total number of shares purchased was 235 for the quarter.  This represents shares acquired by the Company under various compensation and
benefit plans.  This table excludes shares withheld from employees to satisfy minimum tax withholding requirements on option exercises and other
equity-based transactions. The Company administers cashless exercises through an independent, third party broker and does not repurchase stock in
connection with cashless exercise.
(2) Average price paid per share is calculated on a settlement basis and excludes commission.
(3) On April 27, 2012, the Company stated that fiscal year 2011-12 share repurchases were estimated to be approximately $4.0 billion, notwithstanding
any purchases under the Company's compensation and benefit plans.  The share repurchases were authorized pursuant to a resolution issued by the
Company's Board of Directors and were financed by issuing a combination of long-term and short-term debt.  The total dollar value of shares
purchased under the share repurchase plan was $4.0 billion.  The share repurchase plan expired on June 30, 2012.
Additional information required by this item can be found in Part III, Item 12 of this Form 10-K.
Shareholder Return Performance Graphs
Market and Dividend Information
P&G has been paying a dividend for 122 consecutive years since its incorporation in 1890 and has increased its dividend for 56 consecutive years at an annual
compound average rate of approximately 9.5%.
(in dollars; split-adjusted) 1956 1970 1984 1998 2012
Dividends per Share $ 0.01 $ 0.04 $ 0.15 $ 0.51 $ 2.14
The Procter & Gamble Company 10 
QUARTERLY DIVIDENDS
Quarter Ended 2011 - 2012  2010 – 2011
September 30 $ 0.5250  $ 0.4818
December 31 0.5250  0.4818
March 31 0.5250  0.4818
June 30 0.5620  0.5250
COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE
 2011 - 2012   2010 – 2011
Quarter Ended High   Low   High   Low
September 30 $ 65.14   $ 57.56   $ 63.36   $ 58.92
December 31 66.98   61.00   65.38   59.68
March 31 67.95   62.56   66.95   59.70
June 30 67.92   59.08   67.72   61.47
SHAREHOLDER RETURN
The following graph compares the cumulative total return of P&G’s common stock for the 5-year period ending June 30, 2012, against the cumulative total
return of the S&P 500 Stock Index (broad market comparison) and the S&P 500 Consumer Staples Index (line of business comparison). The graph and table
assume $100 was invested on June 30, 2007, and that all dividends were reinvested.
 Cumulative Value of $100 Investment, through June 30
Company Name/Index 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
P&G $ 100 $ 102 $ 88 $ 106 $ 116 $ 116
S&P 500 Index 100 87 64 73 96 101
S&P 500 Consumer Staples Index 100 101 90 103 130 149
11 The Procter & Gamble Company
Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies and Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, Segment Information.
Financial Summary (Unaudited)
Amounts in millions, except per share amounts 2012  2011  2010  2009  2008  2007
Net Sales $ 83,680  $ 81,104  $ 77,567  $ 75,295  $ 77,714  $ 71,095
Gross Profit 41,289  41,245  40,525  37,644  39,534  36,607
Operating Income 13,292  15,495  15,732  15,188  15,743  14,236
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 9,317  11,698  10,851  10,645  11,224  9,562
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations 1,587  229  1,995  2,877  930  847
Net Earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble 10,756  11,797  12,736  13,436  12,075  10,340
Net Earnings Margin from Continuing Operations 11.1%  14.4%  14.0%  14.1%  14.4%  13.4%
Basic Net Earnings per Common Share (1):            
Earnings from continuing operations $ 3.24  $ 4.04  $ 3.63  $ 3.51  $ 3.56  $ 2.95
Earnings from discontinued operations 0.58  0.08  0.69  0.98  0.30  0.27
Basic Net Earnings per Common Share 3.82  4.12  4.32  4.49  3.86  3.22
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share (1):            
Earnings from continuing operations 3.12  3.85  3.47  3.35  3.36  2.79
Earnings from discontinued operations 0.54  0.08  0.64  0.91  0.28  0.25
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 3.66  3.93  4.11  4.26  3.64  3.04
Dividends per Common Share 2.14  1.97  1.80  1.64  1.45  1.28
Research and Development Expense $ 2,029  $ 1,982  $ 1,931  $ 1,844  $ 1,927  $ 1,809
Advertising Expense 9,345  9,210  8,475  7,453  8,426  7,714
Total Assets 132,244  138,354  128,172  134,833  143,992  138,014
Capital Expenditures 3,964  3,306  3,067  3,238  3,046  2,945
Long-Term Debt 21,080  22,033  21,360  20,652  23,581  23,375
Shareholders' Equity 64,035  68,001  61,439  63,382  69,784  67,012
(1) Basic net earnings per share and diluted net earnings per share are calculated based on net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble.
The Procter & Gamble Company 12 
Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Management's Discussion and Analysis
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information,
including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans,
objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which
those statements are based, are “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout
this report, including, without limitation, in the following sections:
“Management's Discussion and Analysis” and “Risk Factors.” These
forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words “believe,”
“project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “strategy,” “future,”
“opportunity,” “plan,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” “will be,” “will
continue,” “will likely result” and similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are
subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ
materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section
titled "Economic Conditions, Challenges and Risks" and the section titled
“Risk Factors” (Item 1A of this Form 10-K). Forward-looking statements
are made as of the date of this report and we undertake no obligation to
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because
of new information, future events or otherwise.
The following Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended
to provide the reader with an understanding of P&G's financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows by focusing on changes in certain key
measures from year to year. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and
should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements
and accompanying notes. MD&A is organized in the following sections:
• Overview
• Summary of 2012 Results
• Economic Conditions, Challenges and Risks
• Results of Operations
• Segment Results
• Cash Flow, Financial Condition and Liquidity
• Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates
• Other Information 
Throughout MD&A, we refer to measures used by management to evaluate
performance, including unit volume growth, net sales and net earnings. We
also refer to a number
 
of financial measures that are not defined under accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), including
organic sales growth, core earnings per share (Core EPS), free cash flow
and free cash flow productivity. Organic sales growth is net sales growth
excluding the impacts of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestitures.
Core EPS is diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations
excluding certain specified charges. Free cash flow is operating cash flow
less capital spending. Free cash flow productivity is the ratio of free cash
flow to net earnings. We believe these measures provide investors with
important information that is useful in understanding our business results
and trends. The explanation at the end of MD&A provides more details on
the use and the derivation of these measures.
Management also uses certain market share and market consumption
estimates to evaluate performance relative to competition despite some
limitations on the availability and comparability of share and consumption
information. References to market share and market consumption in
MD&A are based on a combination of vendor-reported consumption and
market size data, as well as internal estimates. All market share references
represent the percentage of sales in dollar terms on a constant currency
basis of our products, relative to all product sales in the category and are
measured on an annual basis versus the prior 12 month period. References
to competitive activity includes promotional and product initiatives from
our competitors.
OVERVIEW
P&G is a global leader in retail goods focused on providing branded
consumer packaged goods of superior quality and value to our consumers
around the world. Our products are sold in more than 180 countries
primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club
stores, drug stores, department stores, salons and in high-frequency stores.
We continue to expand our presence in other channels, including
department stores, perfumeries, pharmacies, salons and e-commerce. We
have on-the-ground operations in approximately 75 countries.
Our market environment is highly competitive with global, regional and
local competitors. In many of the markets and industry segments in which
we sell our products, we compete against other branded products as well as
retailers' private-label brands. Additionally, many of the product segments
in which we compete are differentiated by price (referred to as super-
premium, premium, mid-tier and value-tier products). We are well
positioned in the industry segments and markets in which we operate -
often holding a leadership or significant market share position.
13 The Procter & Gamble Company
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Our organizational structure is comprised of Global Business Units (GBUs), Global Operations, Global Business Services (GBS) and Corporate Functions
(CF).
Global Business Units
Under U.S. GAAP, the business units comprising the GBUs are aggregated into five reportable segments: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Fabric Care and
Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. The GBUs are responsible for developing overall brand strategy, new product upgrades and innovations and
marketing plans. The following provides additional detail on our reportable segments, businesses and the key product and brand composition within each.
Reportable Segment % of
Net Sales*
% of Net
Earnings*
Categories Billion Dollar Brands
Beauty 24% 22% Antiperspirant and Deodorant, Cosmetics, Hair Care, Hair Color, Personal
Cleansing, Prestige Products, Salon Professional, Skin Care
Head & Shoulders, Olay,
Pantene, SK-II, Wella
Grooming 10% 16% Blades and Razors, Electronic Hair Removal Devices, Hair Care
Appliances, Pre and Post Shave Products
Braun, Fusion, Gillette, Mach3
Health Care 15% 17% Feminine Care, Gastrointestinal, Incontinence, Rapid Diagnostics,
Respiratory, Toothbrush, Toothpaste, Other Oral Care, Other Personal
Health Care, Vitamins/Minerals/Supplements
Always, Crest, Oral-B, Vicks
Fabric Care and Home Care 32% 26% Bleach and Laundry Additives, Air Care, Batteries, Dish Care, Fabric
Enhancers, Laundry Detergents, Pet Care, Professional, Surface Care
Ace, Ariel, Dawn, Downy,
Duracell, Febreze, Gain, Iams,
Tide
Baby Care and Family Care 19% 19% Baby Wipes, Diapers and Pants, Paper Towels, Tissues, Toilet Paper Bounty, Charmin, Pampers
*  Percent of net sales and net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended June 30, 2012 (excluding results held in Corporate).
Recent Developments: In May 2012, we completed the divestiture of our
snacks business to The Kellogg Company. In accordance with the
applicable accounting guidance for the disposal of long-lived assets, the
results of our snacks business are presented as discontinued operations and,
as such, have been excluded from continuing operations and from segment
results for all periods presented. As a result of this change, the pet care
business is now included in the Fabric Care and Home Care segment.
Effective during the quarter ending December 31, 2011, we implemented a
number of changes to our organization structure within the Beauty and
Grooming Global Business Unit (GBU), which resulted in changes to the
components of the Beauty reportable segment and the Grooming reportable
segment. We now manage these businesses based on the nature of the
product rather than the consumer of the product. As a result, female blades
and razors transitioned from Beauty to Grooming, while male personal care
products, such as Old Spice and Gillette, moved from Grooming to Beauty.
The GBU and segment discussions in MD&A and the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements have been retrospectively revised to
reflect the new organizational structure.
Beauty: We are a global market leader in the beauty category. Most of the
beauty markets in which we compete are highly fragmented with a large
number of global and
 
local competitors. We compete in beauty, hair care and prestige. In beauty
care, we offer a wide variety of products, ranging from deodorants to
cosmetics to skin care, such as our Olay brand, which is the top facial skin
care brand in the world with approximately 10% of the global market share.
In hair care, we compete in both the retail and salon professional channels.
We are the global market leader in the retail hair care market with over 20%
of the global market share behind our Pantene and Head & Shoulders
brands. In the prestige channel, we compete primarily with our prestige
fragrances and the SK-II brand. We are one of the global market leaders in
prestige fragrances, primarily behind our Dolce & Gabbana, Gucci and
Hugo Boss fragrance brands.
Grooming: We are the global market leader in the blades and razors market
and in nearly all of the geographies in which we compete. Our global blades
and razors market share is approximately 70%, primarily behind the Gillette
franchise including Fusion and Mach3. Our electronic hair removal devices,
such as electric razors and epilators, are sold under the Braun brand in a
number of markets around the world where we compete against both global
and regional competitors. We hold approximately 30% of the male shavers
market and over 40% of the female epilators market.
The Procter & Gamble Company 14 
Health Care: We compete in oral care, feminine care and personal health.
In oral care, there are several global competitors in the market, and we have
the number two market share position with over 20% of the global market.
We are the global market leader in the feminine care category with over
30% of the global market share. In personal health, we are the global
market leader in nonprescription heartburn medications behind our Prilosec
OTC brand and in respiratory treatments behind our Vicks brand. Certain of
our sales outside the U.S in personal health are generated through the PGT
Healthcare partnership.
 
Fabric Care and Home Care: This segment is comprised of a variety of
fabric care products, including laundry detergents, additives and fabric
enhancers; home care products, including dishwashing liquids and
detergents, surface cleaners and air fresheners; batteries; and pet care. In
fabric care, we generally have the number one or number two share position
in the markets in which we compete and are the global market leader, with
over 25% of the global market share, primarily behind our Tide, Ariel and
Downy brands. Our global home care market share is over 15% across the
categories in which we compete. In batteries, we have over 25% of the
global battery market share, behind our Duracell brand. In pet care, we
compete in several markets in the premium pet care segment, with the Iams
and Eukanuba brands. The vast majority of our pet care business is in North
America, where we have approximately a 10% share of the market.
Baby Care and Family Care: In baby care, we compete mainly in diapers
and baby wipes, with approximately 35% of the global market share. We
are the number one or number two baby care competitor in most of the key
markets in which we compete, primarily behind Pampers, the Company's
largest brand, with annual net sales of approximately $10 billion. Our
family care business is predominantly a North American business
comprised largely of the Bounty paper towel and Charmin toilet paper
brands. U.S. market shares are over 40% for Bounty and over 25% for
Charmin.
Global Operations
Global Operations is comprised of our Market Development Organization
(MDO), which is responsible for developing go-to-market plans at the local
level. The MDO includes dedicated retail customer, trade channel and
country-specific teams. It is organized along five geographic units: North
America, Western Europe, Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East/Africa
(CEEMEA), Latin America and Asia, which is comprised of Japan, Greater
China and ASEAN/Australia/India/Korea (AAIK). Throughout MD&A, we
reference business results in developing markets, which we define as the
aggregate of CEEMEA, Latin America, AAIK and Greater China, and
developed markets, which are comprised of North America, Western
Europe and Japan.
 
Global Business Services
GBS provides technology, processes and standard data tools to enable the
GBUs and the MDO to better understand the business and better serve
consumers and customers. The GBS organization is responsible for
providing world-class solutions at a low cost and with minimal capital
investment.
Corporate Functions
CF provides Company-level strategy and portfolio analysis, corporate
accounting, treasury, external relations, governance, human resources and
legal, as well as other centralized functional support.
STRATEGIC FOCUS
We are focused on strategies that we believe are right for the long-term
health of the Company with the objective of delivering total shareholder
return in the top one-third of our peer group. The Company's long-term
financial targets are:
• Grow organic sales 1% to 2% faster than the market grows in the
categories and geographies in which we compete,
• Deliver Core EPS growth of high single digits to low double
digits, and
• Generate free cash flow productivity of 90% or greater.
In order to achieve these targets, we are prioritizing the strategies and
resources that will make P&G more focused and fit to win over the near-
and long-term.
Strengthening our Core Business 
We are prioritizing resources on our biggest, most profitable businesses and
on the innovations and developing markets that offer the greatest
opportunity for growth.
• Top 40 Businesses: We define our core business as the top 40
country/category combinations, 20 in Household Care and 20 in
Beauty & Grooming, which generate the highest level of annual
sales and profit.
• Top 20 Innovations: Our 20 most important innovations offer
significantly higher growth potential than the balance of the
innovation portfolio. Therefore, the growth of the Company
depends substantially on the success of our biggest innovations.
• Top 10 Developing Markets: Maintaining the strong growth
momentum we have established in developing markets is critical
to delivering our near- and long-term growth objectives. We are
focusing resources first on the markets that offer the greatest
growth opportunity. We will assess the potential for further
portfolio expansions beyond the top 10 developing markets
based on the top- and bottom-line growth progress of the core
business.
15 The Procter & Gamble Company
Improving Productivity and Creating a Cost Savings Culture 
We have taken significant steps to accelerate cost savings and create a more
cost-focused culture within the Company, including a five-year, $10 billion
cost savings initiative, which was announced in February 2012. The cost
savings program is based on:
• Reduction in overhead spending, with a target of approximately
5,700 non-manufacturing overhead positions by the end of fiscal
year 2013.
• Annual savings planned in cost of goods across raw materials,
manufacturing and transportation and warehousing expenses.
• Generating efficiencies to enable us to grow marketing costs at a
slightly slower rate than sales growth while still increasing
consumer reach and effectiveness, saving approximately $1
billion over the five year period.
 
Strengthening our Upstream Innovation Program and Pipeline 
Innovation has always been - and continues to be - P&G's lifeblood. To
consistently win with consumers around the world across price tiers and
preferences, and to consistently win versus our best competitors, each P&G
product category must have a full portfolio of innovation. The innovation
portfolios must include a mix of commercial programs, incremental product
improvements and discontinuous innovations. We have made the creation
of more discontinuous innovation a top priority, dedicating R&D resources
and funding to develop new innovations aimed at changing the game in
existing product categories and creating new ones.
SUMMARY OF 2012 RESULTS
Amounts in millions, except per share amounts 2012  Change vs. Prior Year  2011  Change vs. Prior Year  2010
Net Sales $ 83,680  3%  $ 81,104  5%  $ 77,567
Operating Income 13,292  (14)%  15,495  (2)%  15,732
Net Earnings from Continuing Operations 9,317  (20)%  11,698  8%  10,851
Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations 1,587  593%  229  (89)%  1,995
Net Earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble 10,756  (9)%  11,797  (7)%  12,736
Diluted Net Earnings per Common Share 3.66  (7)%  3.93  (4)%  4.11
Diluted Net Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations 3.12  (19)%  3.85  11%  3.47
Core Earnings per Common Share 3.85  (1)%  3.87  7%  3.61
• Net sales increased 3% to $83.7 billion.
◦ Organic sales increased 3%.
◦ Unit volume was consistent with the prior year period as mid-
single digit growth in developing regions was offset by a low
single-digit decline in developed regions.
• Net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble were $10.8 billion, a
decrease of $1.0 billion or 9% versus the prior year period.
◦ The decrease in net earnings attributable to Procter & Gamble
was due to impairment charges, incremental restructuring
charges and gross margin contraction, partially offset by net sales
growth and the gain on the sale of the snacks business. The
impairment charges included
