Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeachingSpr22.pdf

THE CIRCLE OF LEARNING: 
BACK TO TEACHING!
The classroom calls!
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
Return to a Ritual!
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨If you have been reading this blog long enough, you 
know that at the start of every semester for as long as I 
can remember, I have invited people to sit in informally 
on my classes at NYU or take the shorter online versions 
on my website. 
¨After 36 years of teaching, you would think I would be 
jaded, but I am not. 
¨Since I have described my classes in exhaustive detail in 
prior iterations of this post, I thought I would use this 
one to talk not only what each course contains, but also 
answer the question of why bother in the first place.
3
The COVID Break from the Classroom
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Learning from COVID Teaching
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨In these last two years, I have learned a lot about online teaching, and I 
hope that learning makes me a better teacher, both online and in the 
classroom, in the future. 
¤First, with the technology of today, online classes get scarily close to physically 
being in aclassroom, a reminder to me, and teachers all over the world, that unless 
we offer something unique in a classroom setting, disruption is coming for the 
teaching business.
¤Second, I learned there is some learning that is better delivered online, than in a 
physical setting, and I believe that there are some topics that I will continue to 
deliver online, even after this virus passes on. 
¤Third, while I still loved teaching online, I desperately missed the feeling of being in 
an actual classroom, looking at a collection of faces, some with eyes closed, some 
bored and some waiting to ask a question. After all, every teacher is a repressed 
actor, and actors draw their energy from their audiences, and I have been missing 
mine!
¨Each semester, I step into a classroom wanting to teach the “best” class 
that I ever have taught, in my life, knowing fully well that I willfallshort,
andthat there will be always be things to improve. And
5
My teaching…
¨Generalist: I am a dabbler, not a specialist, and my teaching reflects that 
choice. During my teaching lifetime, I have taught a wide swath of classes, 
ranging from banking to fixed income, but in the last twenty years, my 
focus has been on three classes, corporate finance, valuation and 
investment philosophies, with the last one entirely online. 
¨Classroom Classes: My classroom teaching at Stern has been 
entirelycorporate finance and valuation, to both MBAs and 
undergraduates. With the former, the corporate finance class is a first 
yearelective and the valuation is usually an elective in the second year, 
and with undergraduates, I alternate between the two classes across the 
years. 
¨Online variants: I have supplemented these with shorter online versions 
of each class, offered on my website, at no cost, but with no credit. 
Starting a fewyears ago, Stern has offered certificate versions of each of 
the three classes, definitely notfree, but with more structure (quizzes, 
exams, projects) and a certificate, if you make it through.
6
Prep Work
¨In all ofmy regular classes, I have drawn on the assumption 
that my students come in with an exposure and 
understanding of three areas, accounting (more in the 
context of being able to read financial statements than 
themechanics of debit and credit), finance basics (especially 
the time value of money and anunderstanding of markets) 
and statistics (how to make sense of data). 
¨Being a control freak, I have created my own versions of what 
I would like my students to know in each of these disciplines, 
and you can find myversions on my website.
¨Witheach of my classes, I am sure that purists in each of 
these areas would blanchnot just at mychoice of topicsthat 
matter, but also at mysloppiness in description, but I will let 
you be the judge.
Aswath Damodaran
6
7
Pre Game1: Accounting
8
Pre Game2: Foundations of Finance
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
Pre Game3: Statistics
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
The Game
Aswath Damodaran
10
CorporateFinance
First financialprinciples
governinghowtoruna
business
Valuation
How to value or price just 
about anything (asset, 
collectible, currency)
Investment Philosophies
A set of beliefs about 
markets that animates how 
you invest
11
1: Corporate Finance
Aswath Damodaran
11
12
Pick your poison!
¨ Stern Class: I will be teaching this class toStern MBAs, starting on January 31, 
2022, meeting every Monday and Wednesday, from 10.30 am -11.50 am, New 
York time, through May 9, 2022. If you are a Stern MBA, you are welcome to take 
the class, but if you are not, you can take the classinformally,by watching the 
recorded sessions at this link, taking the quizzes and exam, if you are up for them, 
and eventracking the emails that I send the class at this link. Since the 26 sessions 
of the class are 80 minutes apiece, this will require a substantialinvestment in 
time,though no investment in money, and it comes with no certification or credit. 
¨ Time Constrained?If that time investment is too much of a burden, I have created 
an online version of the class here, with 15-minute sessions replacing the longer 
classroom sessions, and while will cost you nothing as well, it too provides no 
certification. 
¨ Certification needed?If certification is your end game, and I understand that it 
may help augment a resume, you can take the NYU version of the online class in 
the fall of 2022, with a more polished interface and personal interaction, but the 
same content, where you will get a certification and NYU will get a piece of your 
bank account.
Aswath Damodaran
12
13
2: Valuation
Aswath Damodaran
13
14
Make your pick…
¨Stern Classes: This class will be taught to two different audiences, 
Stern MBAs (mostly second year, who have taken my corporate 
finance class already) and Stern undergraduates. While the first 
group will meet every Monday and Wednesday, from 1.30 pm -
2.50 pm, from January 31, 2022, to May 9, 2022, and thesecond 
will meet every Monday and Wednesday from 3.30 pm -4.45 pm, 
from January 24, 2022, to May 9, 2022, the classes areidentical in 
content and delivery. You arewelcome to unofficially partake in 
either of these classes, both in recorded form
¨Time and Budget Constrained?As with corporate finance, you can 
take an online version of thevaluation class, with twenty six 
shorter (15-minute) sessions, for free,with no certification, on my 
site, or for a price and acertificate from NYU.
Aswath Damodaran
14
15
3: Investment Philosophies
Aswath Damodaran
15
16
Free or Paid? 
¨While I do not teach this course in a classroom, there are 
two ways you can take the class. One is online, on my 
website, where I lead you through a journey through 
different investmentphilosophies, weighing not just 
pastsuccesses, but also the combination of factors that 
you need to have to succeed each one, over the course 
of 36 sessions. As with the other online classes on my 
site, it is free, but without certification. 
¨Ifyou do want certification, there is the NYU version of 
the class available here, but for a price (that I do notset 
or control... so it is not fair to argue its fairness or 
unfairness with me).
Aswath Damodaran
16
17
Game Plan
Aswath Damodaran
17
18
Closing Thoughts!
¨Each time I present thesechoices, I will alwayshave a few 
people demand toknow my investmentrecord, and with 
respect, Iwill refuse, for two reasons. 
¤First, there is nothing in mytrack record, whether positive or negative, 
that will help you assess whether what I talk about has heft, since luck 
is the dominant factor in any investor's track record, even over long 
periods. 
¤Second, this demand would make complete sense, if I were seeking to 
manage your money, which I am not, or promising you investment 
riches, which I am also not. 
¨If this absence of proof is a deal breaker for you, I 
understand, but if it is, trust me when I say that these are not 
thedroidsclasses that you were looking for, and may the 
force be with you!
Aswath Damodaran
18
