Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch14.pdf

INVESTMENT 
PHILOSOPHIES 101
Aswath Damodaran
§An investment philosophy is a coherent 
way of thinking about markets, how 
they work (and sometimes do not) and 
the types of mistakes that you believe 
consistently underlie investor behavior. 
§Why do we need to make assumptions 
about investor mistakes? Most active 
investment strategies are designed to 
take advantage of errors made by 
some or all investorsin pricing stocks. 
§Those mistakes themselves are driven 
by far more basic assumptions about 
human behavior, and that behavior 
plays out as market mistakes that you 
hope to exploit for profits. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Individual versus Group Misbehavior: If investor mistakes arise from 
individualized irrationalities, there is a much greater chance that they 
will average out across all investors. 
§Learning-related mistakes: In a rational market, the learning occurs 
almost instantaneously, albeit with error, but if markets learn slowly, 
they will make pricing errors during the period, though there is 
disagreement about whether they will overshoot or undershoot.
§Reaction to information: When a company reports earnings or 
announces its intent to acquire another firm, investors have tomake 
judgments about how this information will affect the company’s future 
earnings and risk and reprice its shares, and there are two contrasting 
views of how they may miss. In the first, they overreact to news 
announcements, pushing up prices too much on good news and down 
too much on bad news. In the second, they underreact to news 
announcements, pushing up prices too little on good news and down 
behavetoolittle on bad news
§Dealing with uncertainty: Uncertainty is part and parcel of business and 
investing, but investors often cope with it in unhealthy (and irrational) 
ways. Some go into denial, some get paralyzed, and some choose 
avoidance, completely removing investments with too much uncertainty 
from their choice sets. 
§Framing: Kahneman and Tversky, pioneers in the behavioral finance 
field, noted that investors are prone to weight losses more than 
equivalent gains, when investing, in what they framed loss aversion, and 
argued that it explained why they tend to hold on to losing investments 
too long.
Aswath Damodaran
§Unless market misbehavior shows up as a mispricing in the market that you can exploit, it cannot be the 
basis for an investment philosophy. In this second step of 
developing an investment philosophy, you must expand 
on how the misbehavior that you believe characterizes markets will play out as market mispricing. 
§To exploit mispricing in most markets, that mispricing to 
be corrected, and to develop an investment philosophy that has coherence, you need to have beliefs about both 
why and when the correction must happen. 
§While all active investment philosophies assume that 
markets make mistakes, they differ in their views on what parts of the market the inefficiencies are most likely to 
show up and how long they will last.
§Some investment philosophies assume that markets are 
correct most of the time but that they overreact when new 
and large pieces of information are releasedabout 
individual firms –they go up too much on good news and 
down too much on bad news. 
§Other investment philosophies are founded on the belief that 
markets can make mistakes in the aggregate –the entire 
market can be under or overvalued –and that some investors 
(mutual fund managers, for example) are more likely to make 
these mistakes than others. Still other investment philosophies 
may assume that while markets do a go
§Markets do a good job of pricing stocks where there is a 
substantial amount of information –financial statements, 
analyst reports and financial press coverage –they 
systematically misprice stocks on which such information is 
not available.
Aswath Damodaran
§Once you have an investment philosophy in place, 
you develop investment strategies that build on 
the core philosophy. 
§Consider, for instance, the views on market 
overreaction where you have two investors who 
believe that market overreact, but one believes 
that it is more likely on company-specific 
information and the other that it occurs more 
frequently with macroeconomic news stories. 
§The first investor, who believes that markets overreact 
to news, may develop a strategy of buying stocks 
after large negative earnings surprises (where the 
announced earnings come in well below 
expectations) and selling stocks after positive 
earnings surprises. 
§The second investor who believes that markets 
make mistakes in response to macroeconomic 
news stories, will buy (sell) stocks (perhaps even the 
entire index) right after unexpectedly bad (good) 
macroeconomic news. 
§It is worth noting that the same investment 
philosophy can spawn multiple investment 
strategies. 
Aswath Damodaran
§In the abstract, you could look at 
investment philosophies and pick the 
one that has delivered the most 
winners in the past, and make it your 
own, and that is what many choose to do. 
§They also tend to find, very quickly, that 
past success notwithstanding, the 
“winning” philosophy does not deliver 
the returns that they thought that it 
would. 
§One reason for that is that for each 
philosophy, success will require not just a 
blind replication of methods but a set of 
personal characteristics and capital 
access that you do not have.
§There is no one “best” investment 
philosophy that that fits all investors, but 
there is an investment philosophy that best 
fits you. 
Aswath Damodaran
§In the absence of an investment philosophy, 
you will tend to shift from strategy to 
strategy simply based upon a strong sales 
pitch from a proponent or perceived recent 
success. There are three negative 
consequences for your portfolio:
§Lacking a rudder or a core set of beliefs, you will 
be easy prey for charlatans and pretenders, 
with each one claiming to have found the magic 
strategy that beats the market.
§As you switch from strategy to strategy, you will 
have to change your portfolio, resulting in high 
transactions costs and you will pay more in 
taxes.
§While there may be strategies that do work for 
some investors, they may not be appropriate for 
you, given your objectives, risk aversion and 
personal characteristics. In addition to having a 
portfolio that under performs the market, you are 
likely to find yourself with an ulcer or worse.
§With a strong sense of core beliefs, you will 
have far more control over your destiny. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§The broadest categorization of investment 
philosophies is on whether they are based 
upon timing overall markets or finding 
individual assets that are mispriced. 
§Within each, though, are numerous strands that 
take very different views about markets. 
§While the overall market goes through up and 
down cycles, and all stocks are impacted, it 
turns out that the cycle effect varies for 
companies at different stages in the life cycle. 
§Generally, when the market is buoyant, and 
investors are seeking out risky investments, 
young companies benefit the most, since they are 
the riskiest and most in need of capital. 
§Conversely, when markets are down, and risk 
capital moves to the sidelines, it is more mature 
companies that hold their value better, as 
investors are drawn to safety. 
§If you are a good market timer, you can magnify 
the benefits of timing by also shifting your 
holdings from older to younger companies, 
ahead of up markets and from younger back to 
more mature companies, if you expect a down 
market. 
Aswath Damodaran
ThePricingGame TheValueGame
Underlying
philosophy
Thepriceistheonlyrealnumberthatyoucan
acton.Nooneknowswhatthevalueofanasset
isandestimatingitisoflittleuse.
Everyassethasafairortruevalue.Youcanestimate
thatvalue,albeitwitherror,andpricemust
convergeonvalue(eventually).
Toplaythegame Youtrytoguesswhichdirectionthepricewill
moveinthenextperiod(s)andtradeaheadof
themovement.Towinthegame,youmustbe
rightmoreoftenthanwrongaboutdirectionand
toexitbeforethewindsshift.
Youtrytoestimatethevalueofanasset,andifitis
under(over)value,youbuy(sell)theasset.Towin
thegame,youmustberightaboutvalue(forthe
mostpart)andthemarketpricehastomovetothat
value
Keydrivers Priceisdeterminedbydemand&supply,which
inturnareaffectedbymoodandmomentum.
Valueisdeterminedbycashflows,growthandrisk.
Informationeffect Incrementalinformation(news,stories,rumors)
thatshiftsthemoodwillmovetheprice,evenifit
hasnorealconsequencesforlongtermvalue.
Onlyinformationthataltercashflows,growthand
riskinamaterialwaycanaffectvalue.
Toolsofthegame 1.Technicalindicators
2.Pricecharts
3.Multiples&Comparablefirms
4.Investorpsychology
1.Ratioanalysis
2.DCFvaluation
3.ExcessReturnmodels
Timehorizon Canbeveryshortterm(minutes)tomildlyshort
term(weeks,months).
Longterm
Keyskill Beabletogaugemarketmood/momentumshifts
earlierthantherestofthemarket.
Beableto“value”assets,givenuncertainty.
Keypersonalitytraits1.Marketamnesia
2.Quickacting
3.Gamblinginstincts
1.Faithin“value”
2.Patience
3.Immunityfrompeerpressure
BiggestDanger(s) Momentumshiftscanoccurquickly,wipingout
monthsofprofitsinafewhours.
Thepricemaynotconvergeonvalue,evenifyour
valueis“right”.
Addedbonus Capacitytomoveprices(withlotsofmoneyand
lotsoffollowers).
Canprovidethecatalystthatcanmovepriceto
value.
Most Delusional
Player
Atraderwhothinksheistradingbasedon
value.
Avalueinvestorwhothinkshecanreasonwith
markets.Aswath Damodaran
§It is true that there are both traders and 
investors in companies at every stage of 
the life cycle, but the mix will shift, as 
companies age. 
§We argued that it is easier to both price 
and value mature companies, relative to 
young companies. 
§With young companies, with uncertainty 
running rampant on every dimension of 
the business model and with little 
historical data, there are few who are 
willing to even trying valuing companies, 
leaving the arena almost entirely to 
traders. 
§As companies mature, and uncertainty 
lessens, investors are more likely to be 
enter the process, and traders may leave, 
as volatility in stock prices drop and 
trading opportunities decrease.  
Aswath Damodaran
§Research on past prices, especially from 
the equity markets, is supportive of price 
patterns, albeit contradictory findings:
§If you define the short term as ranging from 
minutes to hours to even a few days, there is 
evidence of mild positive correlation, with 
prices continuing to move in the same 
direction.  Extending the short term to 
weeks, rather than days, there seems to be 
some evidence that prices reverse. 
§In the medium term, defined as months or 
even a year, rather than a single month, 
there seems to be a tendency towards 
positive serial correlation... 
§When long term is defined in terms of many 
years, there is substantial negative 
correlation in returns, suggesting that 
markets reverse themselves over very long 
periods
§In the middle of the last decade, high 
frequency trading, where institutional 
investors used powerful computers and 
timely data to make very large trades, 
enjoyed a moment in the limelight. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Almost all the market activity in young 
companies comes from traders, rather 
than investors, we would expect 
momentum, if it exists, to be stronger 
at young companies, than at mature 
firms, and reversals, when they happen, 
to be more drastic as well. 
§Thus, the price swings that you see at 
young companies is not just a reflection of 
the underlying business uncertainties at 
these companies but is magnified by the 
dominance of traders in these firms. 
§The push and pull between momentum 
(positive correlation) and reversal 
(negative correlation) across time 
horizons also provides an explanation for 
why price-based trading is never 
monolithic.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§We would argue that the market 
learning mistakes that we observe 
across all companies can be greater at 
young businesses, than at their mature 
counterparts.  
§Studies of the market reaction to 
earnings reports note that the post-
announcement drift is greater at small 
firms, rather than at large firms, at 
firms where there is greater 
uncertainty about future earnings and 
at firms where institutional investors hold 
a smaller percent of the shares. 
§Though it is may be coincidental, young 
firms tend to have smaller market 
capitalization, have greater 
uncertainty about future earnings and 
are less held by institutions.
Aswath Damodaran
§In pure arbitrage, you risk nothing and 
earn more than the riskless rate. For 
pure arbitrage to be feasible, you need 
two assets with identical cashflows, 
different market values at the same point 
in time and a given point in time in the 
future at which the values must converge. 
§In near arbitrage, where you have assets 
that have identical or almost identical 
cash flows, trading at different prices, but 
there is no guarantee that the prices will 
converge and there exist significant 
constraints on forcing convergence. 
§In speculative arbitrage, which is not 
arbitrage in the first place. Here, investors 
take advantage of what they see as 
mispriced and similar (though not 
identical) assets, buying the cheaper one 
and selling the more expensive one. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Not quite identical:. In practice, though, 
many settle for close or very similar, 
rather than identical, and while the 
differences between the investments may 
be small, they can still explain price 
differences. 
§Non-tradability: To lock in profits from 
arbitrage on two investments that you 
believe are identical, but are listed at 
different prices, you must be able to trade 
both investments. 
§Trading Costs: In a related challenge, 
there are some arbitrage opportunities, 
where identical assets trade at different 
prices, where the costs of trading on the 
differences, including transactions costs 
and price impact, are large enough to 
overwhelm the observed price difference.
AswathDamodaran
§Arbitrage opportunities are more likely to be 
available at companies in the earlier stages 
of the life cycle and in decline.
§For companies at the earlier stages in the life 
cycle, pricing errors may come from the 
investors who are drawn to these companies, their 
low profile and the markets they trade in.
§For companies at the other end of the life cycle, 
you are more likely to find pricing errors across 
different securities issued by declining firms, 
and mispricing across securities.
§While the lower profiles and lighter liquidity at 
younger firms make arbitrage opportunities 
more likely to show up on their traded 
securities, the higher transactions costs (bid 
ask spreads and price impact) that you face in 
trading these securities may also mean that 
you will find it more difficult to convert these 
opportunities to profits.
§To the extent that some investors can create 
cost or information advantages over the rest 
of the market, on these stocks, they may be 
able to still find ways to generate arbitrage 
profits.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
This distinction also connects which of these two philosophies, that 
you adhere to, directly to the corporate life cycle, with value investors 
drawn to mature companies, which derive much or all oftheir value 
from assets in place, and growth investors to younger companies, 
where the bulk of the value comes from growth assets.
§In a passive strategy, you invest in a stock or 
company and wait for your investment to pay 
off. Assuming that your strategy is successful, 
this will come from the market recognizing and 
correcting a mis valuation. In an activist 
strategy, you invest in a company and then try 
to change the way the company is run to make 
it more valuable. 
§There is a link between activism in investing 
and where a firm is in the life cycle. 
§As we noted earlier, the venture capitalists in 
start-ups and very young companies are 
almost never passive investors, for many 
reasons. 
§As companies mature, this activism will tend 
to fade, especially as the shareholder base for the 
company becomes more institutional and passive; 
most institutional investors who dislike how a firm 
is run tend to vote with their feet, i.e., sell their 
holdings and move on. 
§As companies enter decline, you are likely to 
see activism pick up again, as investors try to 
alter their operating direction, and in some cases, 
buy them out and make the changes themselves, 
and in others, push them to liquidate or break up. 
Aswath Damodaran
