Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/eqnotes/postclass/session5test.pdf

Session	  5:	  Post	  Class	  tests	  
1. The	  implied	  equity	  risk	  premium	  is	  a	  forward-­‐looking	  premium,	  estimated	  from	  
the	   level	   of	   stock	   prices	   (the	   index)	   today	   and	   expected	   earnings/cash	   flows	   in	  
the	  future.	  Assume	  that	  you	  compute	  the	  implied	  ERP	  at	  the	  start	  of	  a	  year	  and	  
the	  market	  goes	  up	  20%	  during	  the	  course	  of	  the	  year	  and	  that	  you	  compute	  the	  
implied	  ERP	  again	  at	   the	   end	   of	   the	   year.	   Assuming	   that	   the	   risk	   free	   rate	   and	  
growth	   rate	   do	   not	   change	   over	   the	   course	   of	   the	   year,	   which	   of	   the	   following	  
would	  you	  expect	  to	  happen	  to	  the	  implied	  ERP?	  
a. The	  ERP	  will	  go	  down	  
b. The	   ERP	   will	   go	   down,	   if	   the	   earnings/	   cash	   flows	   went	   up	   by	   less	   than	  
20%	  during	  the	  year	  
c. The	  ERP	  will	  go	  down,	  if	  the	  earnings/	  cash	  flows	  went	  up	  by	  more	  than	  
20%	  during	  the	  year	  
d. The	  ERP	  will	  not	  change	  
e. The	  ERP	  will	  go	  up	  
2. To	   compute	   the	   implied	   ERP,	   one	   input	   that	   you	   need	   is	   the	   expected	   growth	  
rate	   in	   earnings/cash	   flows	   in	   future	   years.	   That	   input	   can	   be	   estimated	   by	  
looking	  at	  analyst	  estimates	  of	  growth	  in	  earnings	  for	  individual	  companies,	  but	  
there	   are	   studies	   that	   indicate	   that	   these	   estimates	   are	   biased	   upwards.	  
Assuming	  that	  these	  growth	  rates	  are	  biased	  upwards,	  what	  effect	  will	  it	  have	  on	  
your	  computed	  ERP?	  
a. You	  will	  over	  estimate	  the	  implied	  ERP	  
b. You	  will	  under	  estimate	  the	  implied	  ERP	  
c. You	  could	  under	  or	  over	  estimate	  the	  implied	  ERP	  
3. One	   argument	   made	   by	   those	   who	   use	   a	   historical	   ERP	   is	   that	   using	   it	   is	  
defensible,	  even	   if	   it	   is	   wrong,	   as	   long	   as	  you	   use	   the	   same	  ERP	  in	   all	   your	  
valuations.	   Assume	   that	   the	   implied	   ERP	   is	   greater	   than	   the	   historical	   ERP	   and	  
that	  you	  use	  the	  historical	  ERP	  to	  value	  all	  stocks.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  will	  you	  
find?	  
a. You	  will	  under	  value	  all	  stocks	  equally	  
b. You	  will	  over	  value	  all	  stocks	  equally	  
c. You	   will	   under	   value	   all	   stocks,	   but	   you	   will	   undervalue	   riskier	   stocks	  
more	  than	  safe	  stocks	  
d. You	  will	  over	  value	  all	  stocks,	  but	  you	  will	  over	  value	  riskier	  stocks	  more	  
than	  safe	  stocks	  
e. You	   will	   over	   value	   all	   stocks,	   but	   you	   will	   over	   value	  safe	  stocks	   more	  
than	  riskier	  stocks	  
4. Historically,	   the	  implied	  equity	   risk	   premium	   in	   the	   United	   States	   have	   been	  
about	  twice	  the	  default	  spread	  on	  Baa	  corporate	  bonds.	  Assume	  that	  the	  equity	  
risk	   premium	   has	   dropped	   to	   4%	   and	   that	   the	   Baa	   default	   spread	   is	   now	   3%.	  
Which	   of	   the	   following	   would	   you	   do	   as	   an	   investor,	  assuming	   that	   you	   expect	  
normalcy	  to	  return?	  
a. Buy	  stocks	  and	  buy	  bonds	  
b. Buy	  stocks	  and	  sell	  bonds	  
c. Sell	  stocks	  and	  buy	  bonds
d. Sell	  stocks	  and	  sell	  bonds	  
e. Do	  nothing	  
5. One	   measure	   of	   expected	   return	   from	   real	   estate	   is	   the	   capitalization	   rate,	   the	  
rate	   used	   to	   convert	   the	   earnings	   on	   a	   property	   into	   its	   estimated	   value.	  
Assuming	   that	   you	   were	   interested	   in	   investing	   in	   real	   estate,	   which	   of	   the	  
following	  scenarios	  would	  be	  your	  best	  opportunity	  to	  do	  so?	  
a. High	  capitalization	  rates,	  High	  PE	  ratios,	  High	  bond	  default	  spreads	  
b. High	  capitalization	  rates,	  Low	  PE	  ratios,	  Low	  bond	  default	  spreads	  
c. High	  capitalization	  rates,	  High	  PE	  ratios,	  Low	  bond	  default	  spreads	  
d. High	  capitalization	  rates,	  Low	  PE	  ratios,	  High	  bond	  default	  spreads	  
e. None	  of	  the	  above
