Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeachingManifesto.pdf

A TEACHING MANIFESTO: AN 
INVITATION TO MY CLASSES
Aswath Damodaran
2
It’s time (again)
¨ Every semester that I teach, and it has only been in the 
spring in the last few years, I issue an invitation to 
anyone interested to attend my classes online. 
¨ While I cannot offer you credit for taking the class or 
much direct personal help, you can watch my sessions 
online (albeit not live), review the slides that I use and 
access the post class material, and it is free. 
¨ If you are interested in a certificate version of the class, 
NYU offers that option, but it does so for a fee. You can 
decide what works for you, and whatever your decision 
is, I hope that you enjoy the material and learn from it, 
in that order .
3
My Spring 2020 Teaching Schedule
¨ I will be teaching three classes in Spring 2020 at the 
Stern School of Business (NYU), a corporate finance class 
to the MBAs and two identical valuation classes, one to 
the MBAs and one for undergraduates. 
¤ If you decide to take one of the MBA classes, the first session 
will be on February 3, 2020, and there will be classes every 
Monday and Wednesday until May 11, 2020, with the week of 
March 15-22 being spring break. In total, there will be 26 
sessions, each session lasting 80 minutes. 
¤ The undergraduate classes start a week earlier, on January 27, 
and go through May 11, comprising 28 sessions of 75 minutes 
apiece.
4
1. Regular Classes
¨ With all three classes, the sessions will be recorded and 
converted into streams, accessible on my website, as well as 
YouTube videos, with each class having its own playlist. 
¨ In addition, the classes will also be carried on iTunes U, with 
material and slides, accessible from the site. 
¤ The session videos will usually be accessible about 3-4 hours after class 
is done and you can either take the class in real time, watching the 
sessions in the week that they are taught, or in bunches, when you 
have the time to spend to watch the sessions; the recordings will stay 
online for at least a couple of years after the class ends. 
¨ There will be no need for passwords, since the session videos 
will be unprotected on all of the platforms.
5
2. Online Versions
¨ During the two decades that I have been offering this online 
option, I have noticed that many people who start the class 
with the intent of finishing it give up for one of two reasons. 
¤ The first is that watching an 80-minute video on a TV or tablet is a lot 
more difficult than watching it live in class, straining both your 
patience and your attention. 
¤ The second is that watching these full-length videos is a huge time 
commitment and life gets in the way. 
¨ It is to counter these problems that I created 12-15 minute
versions of the each session for online versions of the classes. 
These online classes, recorded in 2014 and 2015, is also 
available on my website and through YouTube, and should 
perhaps be more doable than the full class version.
6
3. Certificate Classes
¨ If you take one of the free versions of the classes,you don’t have to pay 
but you also will not get credit for finishing or a certificate.
¤ One solution would be to offer the classes through platforms like Coursera, but 
those platforms work with universities, not individual faculty, and NYU has no 
agreements with any of these platforms. 
¨ NYU now offers a certificate version of the class, with four differences:
¤ First, each participant will have to take quizzes and a final exam, multiple choice 
and auto-graded, that will be scored and recorded. 
¤ Second, each participant will have to complete and turn in a real -world project, 
showing that they can apply the principles of the class on a company of their 
choice, to be graded by me. 
¤ Third, I will have live Zoom sessions every other week for class participants, where 
you can join and ask questions about the material. 
¤ Finally, at the end of the class, assuming that the scores on the exams and project 
meet thresholds, you will get a certificate, if you pass the class, or a certificate with 
honors, if you pass it with flying colors.
7
The Classes
¨ Corporate Finance: This class looks at the first
financial principles that govern how you run a 
business, from setting objectives to how much to 
return to owners.
¨ Valuation: This is a class about how to value and/or 
price an asset, a business or a security.
¨ Investment Philosophy: This is a class about how to 
find a philosophy that will guide how you invest that 
is right for you.
8
1. Corporate Finance
9
It is an applied class!
10
For Whom?
¨ I believe that having a solid corporate finance 
perspective can be helpful to everyone. 
¨ I have taught this class to diverse groups, from CEOs to 
banking analysts, from VCs to startup founders, from 
high schoolers to senior citizens, and while the content 
does not change, what people take away from the class 
is different. 
¤ For bankers and analysts, it may be the tools and techniques 
that have the most staying power
¤ For strategists and founders, it is the big picture that sticks. 
¨ So, in the words of the old English calling, "Come ye, 
come all", take what you find useful, abandon what you 
don't and have fun while you do this.
11
Your Choice
¨ 1. Spring 2020 Corporate Finance MBA class (Free)
¤ Webpage for the class
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U class(Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code ofFLJ-
MLN-XZL)
¨ 2. Online Corporate Finance Class (Free)
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U class(Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code ofHAS-
CCR-FRA)
¨ 3. NYU Certificate Class on Corporate Finance (It will cost 
you...)
¤ NYU Entry Page
12
2. Valuation
13
And Pricing…
14
For Whom?
¨ Do you need to be able to do valuation to live a happy 
and fulfilling life? Of course not, but it is a skill worth 
having as a business owner, consultant, investor or just 
bystander. 
¨ With that broad audience in mind, I don't teach this class 
to prepare people for equity research or financial 
analysis jobs, but to get a handle on what it is that drives 
value, in general, and how to detect BS, often spouted in 
its context. 
¨ I want you to be able to value or price just about 
anything by the end of this class, from Bitcoin to 
WeWork, but don't take yourself too seriously, as you do 
so.
15
Your Choice
¨ 1a. Spring 2020 Valuation MBA class (Free)
¤ Webpage for the class
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U class (Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code of FSN-WWJ-RAH)
¨ 1b. Spring 2020 Valuation Undergraduate class (Free)
¤ Webpage for the class
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U class (Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code of ENT-ZXA-JYL)
¨ 2. Online Valuation Class (Free)
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U class (Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code of K7X-VD9-5KE)
¨ 3. NYU Certificate Class on Valuation (Paid)
¤ NYU Entry Page
16
3. Investment Philosophy
¨ If you look at the pantheon of successful investors over time, it is 
not only a short one, but a diverse grouping, including those from 
the old time value school (Ben Graham, Warren Buffett), growth 
success stories (Peter Lynch and VC), macro and market timers 
(George Soros), quant players (Jim Simon) and even chartists. 
¨ It is also true that the millions who claim to follow these legends, 
by reading everything ever written by or about them and listening 
to their advice, don’t seem to replicate their success. 
¨ That led me to conclude that there could be no one ‘best’ 
Investment philosophy across all investors but there could be one 
that is best for you, given your personal makeup and 
characteristics, and that if you are seeking investment nirvana, the 
person that you most need to understand is not Buffett or Lynch, 
but you.
17
Investment Philosophies…
18
For Whom?
¨ This is a class for investors, not portfolio managers or 
analysts, and since we are all investors in one way or the 
other, I try to make it general. 
¨ That said, if your intent is to take a class that will provide easy 
pathways to making money, or an affirmation of the "best" 
investment philosophy, this is not the class for you. 
¨ My objective in this class is not to provide prescriptive advice, 
but to instead provide a menu of choices, with enough 
information to help you can make the choice that is best for 
you. 
¨ Along the way, you will see how difficult it is to beat the 
market, why almost every investment strategy that sounds 
too good to be true is built on sand, and why imitating great 
investors is not a great way to make money.
19
Your Choice
¨ 1. Online Investment Philosophies Class (Free)
¤ My website &amp; streaming
¤ YouTube Playlist
¤ iTunes U (Download the iTunes U app and use enroll code 
of J6Z-AD7-NX3)
¨ 2. NYU Certificate Class on Valuation (Paid)
¤ NYU Entry Page (Coming soon)
20
Not a Guru, just a Guide…
¨ I have to confess that I don't subscribe to the ancient 
Guru/Sishya relationship in teaching, where the Guru 
(teacher) is an all-knowing individual who imparts his or her 
fountain of wisdom to a receptive and usually subservient 
follower. 
¨ I have always believed that every person who takes my class, 
no matter how much of a novice in finance, already knows 
everything that needs to be known about valuation, 
corporate finance and investments, and it is my job, as a 
teacher, to make him or her aware of this knowledge. 
¨ Put simply, I can provide some structure for you to organize 
what you already know, and tools that may help you put that 
knowledge into practice, but I am incapable of profundity.
