Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Inflation.pdf

INFLATION AND INVESTING: IS 
THE GENIE OUT OF THE BOTTLE?
Aswath Damodaran
2
Inflation takes center stage?
¨Looking at US equities, the S&P 500 is up about 11% and 
the NASDAQ is up about 5%, from start of the year 
levels, and that underperformance has led to a wave of 
stories about whether this is start of the long awaited
return of value stocks, after a decade of lagging growth 
stocks. 
¨Along the way, it has been a bumpy ride, as the market 
wrestles with two competing factors, 
¤an economy growing faster than expected, acting as a positive 
¤And worries that this growth will bring with it higher inflation 
and interest rates, as a negative.
3
What is inflation?
¨Put simply, inflation is a measure of the change in 
purchasing power in a givencurrency over time. Implicit 
in this definition are two key components of inflation.
¤The first is that to define purchasing power, you have tostart 
with a definition of what you are purchasing, and this detail, as 
we will see, can lead to differences in inflation measured over a 
given period, across measures/services.
¤The second is that inflation is tied to currencies, and different 
currencies can be exposed to different levels of inflation over 
the same period. Understanding these differences is key to 
understanding why interest rates can vary across currencies and 
the changes in exchange rates over time.
4
ActualInflation:Measures
¨ Consumption basket is misspecified: While the services try their best to get the 
basket of goods and services right, there are two fundamental problems. The first 
is that within a country, the basket varies widely across consumers and identifying 
the representative consumer is inherently subjective. The second is that the 
basket is not stable over time, as consumers adjust to changing tastes and prices 
to alter what and how much they consume of different goods and services. 
¨ Prices of goods and services are wrong/biased: Even if you had consensus on the 
consumption basket, the prices for goods and services have tobe estimated. 
While services use sampling techniques to obtain prices of goods and service from 
sellers, and double check them against consumer expenditures, there is no 
practical way that you can survey every store and consumer . 
¨ Prices of goods and services have seasonal patterns and/or volatility: There are 
some goods and service, where there can be seasonal patterns in prices, and 
services sometimes try to control for the seasonality, when measuring changes in 
pricing power . With items, where prices can be volatile over short period, like 
gasoline, services will measure inflation with and without these items to highlight 
the effect of volatility.
5
ExpectedInflation
¨Inflation surveys: There are services that report measures of expected 
inflation, obtained by surveying economic experts or consumers.
¨Interest rates: To understand the link between expected inflation and 
interest rates, consider the Fisher equation, where a nominal riskfree 
interest rate (which is what treasury bond rates) can be broken down into 
expected inflation and expected real interest rate components. Put 
simply, if you expect the annual inflation rate to be 2% in the future, you 
wouldneed to set the interest rate on a bond above 2% to earn a real 
return.
¨Exchange rates: The third approach to estimating inflation rates is to use 
forward exchange rate, in conjunction with spot rates, to back out 
expected inflation in a currency. To use this approach, you need to have a 
base currency, where you can estimate expected inflation, say the US 
dollar and forward exchange rates in the currency in which you want to 
estimate inflation.
6
ExpectedInflation:TreasuryMarkets
7
Expected Inflation: Survey versus Treasury
8
What causes inflation?
¨Inflation, at its core, is a monetary phenomenon, created by too 
much money chasing too few goods. That said, it is true that in the 
near term (which can extend to years), inflation is affected by other 
forces as well.
¤Economic slack: When an economy has employment and production slack, as is the 
case after recessions or economic crises, you could see inflation stay subdued, even 
in the presence of fiscal and monetary stimuli, as it grows to fill in capacity. 
¤Structural Changes: There are times when structural changes in the economy, 
arising as you transition from a manufacturing to a service economy, or from one 
that is domestically focused to one that is export-oriented, can create periods 
where inflation stays subdued in the face of monetary expansion.
¤Consumer/investor behavior: Consumers are the final wild card in this process, as 
changes in demographics and behavior can have consequences for inflation. 
¤Size of the economy: It is not fair, but larger economies with currencies that are 
used more globally, also have the capacity to absorb shocks that would put a lesser 
economy into an inflationary spiral.
9
Difference of views?
10
Currency and Inflation
11
Leading to interest rate differences..
-5.00%
0.00%
5.00%
10.00%
15.00%
20.00%
25.00%
30.00%
35.00%
40.00%
Croat ian  Kuna
Bul garian Lev
Vietnam ese Dong
Japanese Yen
Euro
Swi ss F ranc
Danish Krone
Taiwanese $
Thai Baht
Swedi sh Krona
HK $
Isr aeli  Shek el
Br itish Po und
Hungarian Fo rint
Polish Zloty
Czech Koruna
Canadian $
Nor wegian Kr one
Si ngapor e $
US $
NZ $
Australian $
Qa tari Dinar
Korean Won
Phillipine Peso
Romanian Lev
Maly asian Ri nggit
Chil ean Peso
Ic el and Krona
Nigerian N ai ra
Chin ese Yuan
Col ombi an Peso
Peruvian Sol
Russian Rub le
In dian Rupee
Mexi can Peso
Pakistani Rupee
Br azil ian  Reai
In donesi an Rupiah
So uth African R and
Kenyan Shilling
Turkish Lira
Za mbian kwa cha
Riskfree Rates in January 2021 : Government Bond Rate
Riskfree Rate Default Spread based on rating
12
Inflation in the US
13
Inflation and Value: Fixed Income
¨Expected inflation and unexpected inflation play out in very different ways 
on bond value:
¤At the time that the contract is specified, the buyer of a bond takes into account
the expected inflation, at that time, when deciding the coupon rate for the bond. 
¤Subsequent tothe contract being settled and the bond being issued, both the bond 
buyer and seller are exposed to actual inflation, which can be higher or lower than 
the inflation that was expected at the time the bond was issued.  The return that 
the bond buyer will earn on the bond has two components, a coupon portion that 
will increase with expected inflation and a price appreciation portion that will move 
inversely with unexpected inflation.
¨Inflation value proposition 1:In periods when inflation is lower than 
expected, treasury bond returns will be boosted by price appreciation 
and in periods when inflation is higher than expected, treasury bond 
returns will be dragged down by price depreciation.
¨Inflation value proposition 2:In periods when inflation is higher (lower) 
than expected, corporate default risk can increase (decrease), leading to 
corporate bond returns lagging (leading) treasury bond returns.
14
Inflation and Stocks
15
Inflation: Value Effects
¨As you work through these competing effects, you can see why you see 
competing claims about how equities will be affected by inflation. I have 
heard, from market experts, that inflation is good for stocks, that it is a 
neutral and that it is a bad, and I think that all three statements can be 
true, but not at the same company.
¨Inflation value proposition 3:In periods when inflation is higher (lower) 
than expected, individual companies can benefit, be left unaffected or be 
hurt by inflation, depending on whether the benefits of inflation (higher 
revenue growth and margins) are greater than, equal to or less thanthe 
costs ofunexpected inflation (higher risk freerates, higher risk premiums, 
higher default spreads and higher taxes).
¨Inflation value proposition 3: Extending this discussion from individual 
stocks to the entire equity market, it is difficult to visualize a scenario 
where unexpectedly high inflation is not a net minus for markets, at least 
until expectations are reset, as investors struggle to reassess risk 
premiums and companies try to adjust their product pricing and cost 
structures to deal with the higher inflation.
16
Inflation and Financial Asset Returns
Aswath Damodaran
16
17
Financial Asset Returns: By Decade
Aswath Damodaran
17
18
Real Asset Returns and Inflation
19
And by decade…
20
Inflation and Cryptos?
21
Inflation Hedges?
22
Whatnow?
¨ Inflation is back: There is no question that we are seeing higher inflation now than we have 
seen in a decade, in reported numbers (CPI, PPI and GDP deflators), in expectations (from 
the treasury markets and surveys) and in commodity markets.
¨ Transitory or Permanent?The debate, both among investors and at central banks, is 
whether this surge in inflation reflects a return from an economic shutdown, which will burn 
out once things settle down, or a sign of a permanent increase from the abnormally low 
inflation that we witnessed all ofthe last decade. 
¨ Return to Normal: If some or all ofthe inflation increase is permanent, and we are reverting 
backto more normal inflation levels (2-3%), there will be an adjustment, perhaps even 
painful, as interest rates riseand stock prices recalibrate. 
¨ With a non-trivial chance of a breakout: If it is permanent, and we see inflation rise to levels 
not seen since the 1970s and 1980s (>5%), stocks and bonds will have to be repriced 
significantly. Not only will investors need to move money out of financial into real assets and 
collectibles, but companies and individuals that have chosen to borrow to capacity, based 
upon current low rates, will face a default risk reckoning.
¨ Fed Follies?It behooves the Fed to get ahead of the inflation game. Since the probability of 
inflation rising to dangerous levels is non-trivial, the Fed should stop its happy talk about 
inflation being under control and interest rates staying low, no matter what.
