Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TataGroup.pdf

ALL IN THE FAMILY: THE UPS 
AND DOWNS OF FAMILY 
GROUP COMPANIES
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Tata Group
3
The Tata Tradition
Chairman Tenure Highlights
Jamsetji Tata 1868-1904 
Founded	the	Tata	Group	as	a	trading	
company	in	1868.
Dorab Tata 1904-1932 
Instrumental	in	creating	the	Tata	Trust,	the	
family	philathropy
Nowroji	Saklatvala 1932-1938 
Related	to	the	Tatas	and	started	profit -
sharing	scheme.
JRD	Tata 1939-1991 
Legendary	and	longest -serving	CEO	and	a	
pioneer	in	civil	aviation.
Ratan	Tata 1991-2012
Presided	over	global	expansion	of	the	group,	
acquiring	global	companies	to	do	so.
Cyrus	Mistry 2012-2016
Related	to	Tatas and	son	of	one	of	the	Tata	
group's	largest	stockholders.
4
The Troubles
¨ In	October	2016,	the	board	of	directors	of	Tata	Sons	
sacked	Cyrus	Mistry	for	non-performance,	i.e.,	failing	
to	deliver	on	promised	improvements	in	the	
business	and	reinstated	Ratan	Tata	as	chairman.	As	
evidence,	they	pointed	to	declining	dividends	and	
earnings	at	the	non-TCS	Tata	companies.
¨ Cyrus	Mistry	has	not	gone	quietly	and	has	fought	
back,	arguing	that	he	was	fired	for	exposing	and	
trying	to	clean	up	the	mistakes	made	by	the	previous	
regime.
5
Points	of	agreement	&	disagreement
¨ Both	sides	agree	that	the	bulk	of	Tata’s	earnings	and	value	come	
from	two	Tata	holdings,	TCS	and	Jaguar	 LandRover and	that	the	rest	
of	the	Tata	businesses	are	experiencing	problems.
¨ The	sides	disagree	about	why	the	problems	exist	and	what	can	be	
done	about	them.
¤ Cyrus	Mistry	argues	that	these	problems	were	created	by	overreach	and	
bad	acquisitions	made	by	 Ratan Tata,	are	not	fixable	and	that	he	was	
trying	to	exit	these	investments	(leading	to	impairments,	reduced	
dividends	and	losses)>
¤ The	Ratan Tata	faction	notes	that	Cyrus	Mistry	knew	about	these	problems	
when	he	became	Chairman	and	that	he	was	hired	to	fix	these	problems	
and	that	he	has	not.
¨ The	very	fact	that	you	have	a	company	split	into	factions	with	very	
different	readings	of	history	suggests	that	there	is	no	good	
outcome	here	and	it	is	difficult	to	see	a	happy	ending	to	this	story.
6
The	Family	Group	Business
¨ In	much	of	Asia	and	Latin	America,	business	has	been	
historically	and	often	continues	to	be	dominated	by	
family	groups.
¨ These	family	groups	control	multiple	companies	in	many	
different	businesses,	sometimes	fairly	(by	holding	large	
proportions	of	each	company)	and	sometimes	by	
skewing	the	rules	(pyramid	holdings,	shares	with	
different	voting	rights).
¨ The	very	fact	that	they	dominate	some	economies	
suggests	that	they	must	bring	some	strengths	to	the	
table,	but	those	strengths	can	also	become	weaknesses,	
as	is	evidenced	by	family	groups	that	get	into	trouble.
7
The	4Cs	as	Pluses
Connections
Family	group	companies	have	historically	used	these	connections	as	a	
competitive	advantage	against	upstart	competition	(both	from	within	and	
without	the	country),	especially	in	an	environment	where	you	have	to	pass	
through	a	legal,	bureaucratic	and	political	thicket	to	start	and	run	a	
business.
Capital
Extended	family	group	companies	create	internal	capital	markets,	where	
profitable	and	mature	companies	in	the	group	can	invest	their	excess	cash	
in	growth	companies	within	the	same	group	that	need	the	capital	to	grow.
Control
Control	is	absolute	in	family	group	companies,	and	the	family	group	uses	
this	control	to	make	decisions	that	are	good	for	the	long	term	value	of	the	
company	but	that	may	be	viewed	negatively	by	“short	term”	investors	in	
markets.
Culture
The	culture	of	a	family	group	company	is	more	enduring	and	long	term,	
and	to	the	extent	that	the	culture	that	is	embedded	is	a	good	one,	that	can	
be	a	benefit	to	the	company	both	in	terms	of	retaining	employees	and	
customer	trust.
8
The	4Cs	as	Minuses
Connections
If	connections	become	your	primary	competitive	advantage,	you	will	rest	on	
that	advantage	and	not	work	on	developing	other	core	competencies.	If	the	
connections	shift	from	family	and	social	ones	to	the	political	arena	you	are	on	
more	dangerous	ground,	since	a	change	of	regime	(democratic	or	otherwise)	
can	be	devastating	to	your	 business	interests.
Capital
Without	the	discipline	of	external	lenders	or	equity	markets,	you	have	cross-
subsidies, where	intracompany	loans	are	made	at	below-market	rates	and	
intracompany	investments	earn	less	than	the	cost	of	capital.	Those	investments	
also	create	cross	holdings,	which	add	to	corporate	complexity.
Control
Absolute	control	can	lock	in	the	status	quo,	with	inertia	determining	much	of	
how	it	makes	investment,	financing	and	dividend	decisions.	Put	differently,	if	a	
family	is	mismanaging	a	business,	it	can	be	very	difficult	to	get	it	to	change	its	
ways.
Culture
First,	a	family	culture	can	go	from	benign	to	malignant	and	having	that	pervade	
an	organization	can	be	deadly.	Second,	the	implicit	assumption	that	family	
members	share	a	common	culture	may	be	an	artifact	of	times	gone	by,	as	
families	splinter	and	go	their	own	ways.
9
The	Net	Effect
¨ If	you	live	in	a	country	with	heavily	regulated	and	
licensed	businesses	and	undeveloped	capital	
markets,	the	pluses	will	outweigh	the	minuses	and	
family	businesses	will	flourish.
¨ As	countries	globalize	and	deregulate	and	markets	
develop,	the	disadvantages	will	start	to	overwhelm	
the	advantages.
¨ The	slide	in	family	businesses	will	be	gradual,	
occurring	fastest	in	the	newest	and	most	globalized	
sectors	and	slowest	in	the	older,	more	regulated	
sectors.
10
Back	to	the	Tata	Group:	What	now?
1. Settle	(soon) :	The	dispute	between	Cyrus	Mistry	and	 Ratan Tata	
has	to	be	settled	and	 soon.
2. This	is	personal:	Since	this	has	become	personal,	 Ratan Tata	may	
have	to	step	down	for	the	crisis	to	abate.
3. Separate	the	public	companies	from	the	 private:	The	dangers	of	
self	dealing	and	conflicts	of	interest	are	greatest	when	the	private	
businesses	interact	with	the	public	companies.
4. Unit	Independence :	(a)	Sell	cross	holdings	in	other	Tata	
companies	and	(b)	 Remove	family	group	directors	who	serve	on	
the	boards	of	the	stand	alone	companies.
5. Restrict	intra	group	activities :	Interactions	should	follow	first	
principles	in	finance.	
6. Transparency:	Make	the	companies	financials	and	governance	
less	opaque.
11
Suggestions	for	India	Inc.
¨ There	are	many	reasons	why	China	seems	to	have	left	India	in	the	dust	over	the	
last	two	decades	in	the	race	for	global	growth	but	one	of	them	may	be	the	hold	
that	family	businesses	have	over	large	segments	of	the	Indian	economy.
¤ India	has	made	the	most	progress	is	technology,	least	amenable	to	licensing/regulation	and	
the	most	global	of	sectors,	and	the	least	progress	in	infrastructure	and	manufacturing.
¤ It	may	be	coincidence	but	technology	is	also	the	sector	where	family	businesses,	TCS	
notwithstanding,	have	the	shallowest	roots.	
¨ As	India	moves	further	towards	being	a	more	globalized	country,	opening	hitherto	
closed	sectors	to	global	competition,	the	family	business	structure	may	become	
more	hindrance	than	help.	While	I	don’t	believe	that	it	is	the	government’s	place	
to	insert	itself	within	family	groups,	it	should	stop	tilting	the	playing	field	in	their	
favor	by:
¤ Reducing	the	need	for	connections	to	do	business	(Less	rules/licenses)
¤ Government-based	or	influenced	investors	(LIC)	should	be	more	activist
¤ Bankers	(against	many	government	picked	and	influenced)	have	to	break	cozy	relationships	
with	family	group	companies.
