Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/FoundationsOnline/postclass/session3test.pdf

Session	3:	Post	Class	tests	
1. To	get	from	earnings	to	cash	flows,	we	add	back	non-cash	accounting	
expenses.	Which	of	the	following	is	not	a	non-cash	expense?	
a. Amortization	of	goodwill	
b. Depreciation	of	plant	and	equipment	
c. An	accounting	write-off	on	a	past	investment	
d. A	one-time	charge	to	cover	a	lawsuit	settlement	
e. An	increase	in	the	provision	for	bad	debts	
2. To	get	from	earnings	to	cash	flows,	we	add	back	capital	expenses.	Which	of	
the	following	is	not	a	capital	expense	(for	cash	flow	purposes)	for	a	non-
financial	service	firm?	
a. Investment	in	marketable	securities	(treasury	bills	and	commercial	
paper)	
b. Investment	in	new	plant	and	equipment	
c. Cash	acquisition	of	another	company	
d. Acquisition	of	a	patent	with	intent	to	convert	to	commercial	use	
e. A	capital	renovation	of	existing	assembly	lines	
3. To	get	from	earnings	to	cash	flows,	we	subtract	out	changes	in	working	
capital.	With	each	of	the	following	working	capital	items,	explain	the	effect	on	
cash	flows	
a. Increase	in	inventory	
b. Increase	in	accounts	payable	
c. Increase	in	accounts	receivable	
d. Increase	in	taxes	due	
e. Increase	in	cash	balance	
4. Under	which	of	the	following	conditions	would	you	expect	cash	flows	to	be	
higher	than	earnings	for	a	company?	
a. High	capital	expenditures,	high	depreciation,	increasing	working	
capital	
b. Low	capital	expenditures,	high	depreciation,	increasing	working	
capital	
c. High	capital	expenditures,	low	depreciation,	increasing	working	
capital	
d. Low	capital	expenditures,	high	depreciation,	decreasing	working	
capital	
e. Low	capital	expenditures,	low	depreciation,	increasing	working	
capital	
5. Given	our	earlier	discussion	of	corporate	life	cycles,	where	in	a	company’s	life	
cycle	would	you	expect	earnings	to	be	positive	and	growing,	while	cash	flows	
are	getting	more	negative?	
a. Young,	money-losing	start-ups	with	high	growth	potential	
b. Young,	growth	companies,	just	starting	to	turn	profitable	and	with	
high	growth	potential	
c. Mature	growth	companies	which	are	profitable	but	are	seeing	growth	
rates	come	down.
d. Mature	companies	with	high	earnings	and	low	growth	potential	
e. Declining	companies
