Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/UberIPO.pdf

UBER: THE OTHER RIDE SHARING SHOE 
DROPS ON PUBLIC MARKETS!
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Uber Entrée!
¨ The Lyft Preview: After Lyft’s IPO on March 29, 2019, it 
was only a matter of time before Uber threw its hat in 
the public market ring, and on Friday, April 12, 2019, the 
company filed its prospectus. 
¨ Public, without being public: It is the first time that this 
company, which has been in the news more frequently 
than almost any publicly traded company in the market, 
has opened its books for investors, journalists and 
curiosity seekers. 
¨ Opening the books: As someone who has valued Uber 
with the tidbits of information that have hitherto been 
available about the company, mostly leaked and 
unofficial, I am .
3
The Prospectus
¨ It’s big and dense: To get a sense of where Uber stands 
now, just ahead of its IPO, I started with the prospectus, 
which weighing in at 285 pages, not counting 
appendices, and filled with pages of details, can be 
daunting. 
¨ Disclosure’s dark side: It is a testimonial to how 
information disclosure requirements have had the 
perverse consequence of making the disclosures useless, 
by drowning investors in data and meaningless legalese. 
¤ I know that there are many who have latched on to the 
statement that "we may not achieve profitability" that Uber 
makes in the prospectus (on page 27) as an indication of its 
worthlessness, but I view it more as evidence that lawyers 
should never be allowed to write about investing risk.
4
The Business Spin! Personal Mobility? 
Really?
5
Uber’s Growth Story
6
And its losses!
7
The Rider Numbers
8
Uber’s Expenses
¨ User Acquisition costs: I computed the user acquisition cost each 
year by dividing the selling expenses by the number of riders added 
during the year .
¨ Operating Expenses for Existing Rides: I have included the cost of 
revenues (not including depreciation) and operations and support 
as expenses associated with current riders.
¨ Corporate Expenses; These are expenses that I assume are general 
expenses, not directly related to either servicing existing users or 
acquiring new ones and I include R&D, G&A and depreciation in 
this grouping.
9
Uber’s Business Expansion, but with a 
catch?
10
Uber’s Geographical Reach (with a crimp)
11
Uber: A Top Down Valuation
¨ I used a top-down approach, starting with US 
transportation services as my total accessible market 
and working down through market share, margins 
and reinvestment to derive a value of $13.9 billion 
for its operating assets and $16.4 billion with the IPO 
proceeds counted in. 
¨ Using a similar approach is trickier for Uber, since its 
decision to be in multiple parts of the logistics 
business and its global ambitions require assessment 
of a global logistics market, a challenge.
13
An Alternate Approach
¨ The uncertainty about the total accessible market, 
though, makes me uneasy with my top down valuation. 
¨ In June 2017, I presented a different approach to valuing 
companies like Uber, that derive their value from users, 
subscribers or members. In that approach, 
¤ I began by valuing an existing user (rider), by looking at the 
revenues and cash flows that Uber would generate over the 
user’s lifetime 
¤ Then extended the approach to valuing a new user, where the 
cost of user acquisition has to be netted out against the user 
value. 
¤ I completed the assessment by computing the value drag 
created by non-rider related corporate expenses.
15
What if analysis?
16
Reading the table
¨ If you are a trader, deeply suspicious of intrinsic 
value, you may look at this table as confirmation that 
intrinsic value models can be used to deliver 
whatever value you want them to, and your 
suspicions would be well founded. 
¨ I am a believer in value and I see this table in a 
different light It is a reminder that my estimate of 
value is just mine, based on my story and inputs, and 
that there are others with different stories for the 
company that may explain why they would pay much 
more or much less than I would for the company.
17
Pathways for Uber
¨ Uber is a company that is poised on a knife's edge. 
¤ If it just continues to just add to its rider count, but pushes up its 
cost of acquiring riders as it goes along, and existing riders do 
not increase the usage of the service, its value implodes. 
¤ If it can get riders to significantly increase usage (either in the 
form of more rides or other add on services), it can find a way to 
justify a value that exceeds $100 billion. 
¨ The table also indicates that if Uber has to pick between 
spending money on acquiring more riders or getting 
existing riders to buy more of its services, the latter 
provides a much bigger bang for the buck than the 
former.
18
The Business Bottom Line
¨ I hope Dara Khoshrowshahi means it when he says that 
Uber has to show a pathway to profitability, but I think 
that is what is more critical is that he acts on those 
words. 
¨ This remains a business (whether you define it to be ride 
sharing, transportation services or personal mobility) 
without a business model that can generate sustained 
profits, precisely because the existing model was 
designed to deliver exponential growth and little else, 
and Uber, and the other players in this game), have only 
a limited window to fix it.
19
Uber versus Lyft
¨ Having spent all of this time on Uber's valuation, let 
me concede to the reality that Uber will be priced by 
the market, and it will be priced relative to Lyft. 
¨ That is why Uber has probably been pulling harder 
than almost any one else in the market for the Lyft 
IPO to be well received and for its stock to continue 
to do well in the aftermarket.
20
Pricing Uber
21
Ball is in your court now!
¨ I am sure that there are many who understand the 
ride sharing business much better than I do, and see 
obvious limitations and pitfalls in my valuations of 
both Uber and Lyft. 
¨ I hope that even if you disagree with me on my 
numbers, the spreadsheets that are linked are 
flexible enough for you to take your stories about 
these companies to arrive at your value judgments.
