Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate3for2021.pdf

DATA UPDATE 3 FOR 2021: THE 
REST OF THE (MARKET) STORY
Joined at the hip?
2
The Rest of the (Market) Story!
¨ As stock and bond markets went through gyrations in 2020, it 
should come as no surprise that the same forces were playing 
out in other markets as well. 
¨ I will take a look at these other markets, starting with a way 
of dividing investments into assets, commodities, currencies 
and collectibles that I find useful in thinking about what I can 
(and cannot) do in those markets, and then reviewing how 
these markets performed during 2020. 
¨ As I do this, there is no way that I can evade discussing Bitcoin 
and other crypto assets, which continued to draw 
disproportionate (relative to their actual standing in markets) 
attention during the year, and talking about what 2020 taught 
us about them.
3
Investments: A Classificaton
¨ Assets: An asset has expected cash flows that can either be 
contractually set , residual or even conditional on an event 
occurring (options and warrants).
¨ Commodities: A commodity derives its value from being an input 
into a process to produce a item (product or service) that 
consumers need or want. 
¨ Currencies: A currency serves three functions. It is ameasure of 
value (used to tell you how much a product or service costs), 
a medium of exchange(facilitating the buying and selling of 
products and services) and astore of value (allowing people to save 
to meet future needs). 
¨ Collectibles: A collectible's pricing comes from the perception that 
it has value, driven by tastes (artwork) and/or scarcity (rare items). 
There are a range of investments that fall into this grouping from 
fine art to sports memorabilia to precious metals.
4
Value versus Price
5
Applied to Investment Groupings..
To value To price
Assets Can be valued based upon expected 
cashflows, with higher cashflows & 
lower risk = higher value.
Can be priced against similar 
assets, after controlling for cash 
flows and risk.
Commodity Can be roughly valued using macro 
estimates of demand & supply for it.
Can be priced against its own 
history (normalized price over 
time) or against related 
commodities.
Currency Cannot be valued Can be priced against other 
currencies, with greater acceptance 
& more stable purchasing power = 
higher price.
Collectible Cannot be valued Can be priced based upon scarcity, 
desirability and longevity.
6
Trader or Investor?
Trading Investing
Underlying 
philosophy
The price is the only real number that you can act on. 
No one knows what the value of an asset is and 
estimating it is of little use.
Every asset has a fair or true value. You can estimate that 
value, albeit with error, and price has to converge on value 
(eventually).
To play the 
game
You try to guess which direction the price will move in 
the next period(s) and trade ahead of the movement. i
You try to estimate the value of an asset, and if it is 
under(over) value, you buy (sell) the asset. 
Key drivers Price is determined by demand & supply, which in turn 
are affected by mood and momentum. Value is determined by cash flows, growth and risk.
Information 
effect
Incremental information (news, stories, rumors) that 
shifts the mood will move the price, even if it has no 
real consequences for long term value.
Only information that alter cash flows, growth and risk in a 
material way can affect value.
Tools of the 
game
(1) Technical indicators, (2) Price Charts (3) Investor 
Psychology (1) Intrinsic Valuation (2) Fundamental Research
Time horizon Can be very short term (minutes) to medium term 
(weeks, months). Long term
Key skill Be able to gauge market mood/momentum shifts 
earlier than the rest of the market. Be able to “value” assets, given uncertainty.
Key personality 
traits
(1) Market amnesia (2) Quick Actiing (3) Gambling 
Instincts
(1) Faith in “value” (2) Faith in markets (3) Patience (4) 
Immunity from peer pressure
Biggest 
Danger(s)
Momentum shifts can occur quickly, wiping out 
months of profits in a few hours.
The price may not converge on value, even if your value is 
“right” .
Added bonus Capacity to move prices (with lots of money and lots 
of followers). Can provide the catalyst that can move price to value.
Most Dangerous 
Delusion A trader who thinks he is trading based on value. A value investor who thinks he can reason with markets or 
lecture them on how they should price assets.
7
Commodities in 2020:: Oil and Copper
8
Commodities in 2020: Broader Indices
9
Currencies in 2020: US $ vs Key Currencies
10
Currencies in 2020: Broader Indices
11
Collectibles in 2020: Gold & Silver
12
And other collectibles…
¨ The year (2020) had mixed effects on other collectible 
markets. 
¨ Fine art, for itself, built around in-person auctions of 
expensive art works saw sales plummet in the early 
months of 2020, as shutdowns kicked in, but saw a surge 
of online auctions towards the end of the year. 
Notwithstanding this development, overall sales of art 
dropped in 2020, and transactions decreased, especially 
in the highest-priced segments.
¨ It is difficult to tell how much the pricing of individual art 
pieces was affected, since the owners of this art tend to 
pull it back from the market during down periods, rather 
than sell at lower prices.
13
Cryptos: The Bitcoin Story
14
What is bitcoin? My views…
¨ Bitcoin is not an asset. You can create securities denominated in bitcoin that have 
contractual or residual cash flows, but it is the contractual claim that is the asset, not 
bitcoin.
¨ Bitcoin is not a commodity . It is true that block chains are finding their way into different 
segments of the economy and that the demand for block chains may grow exponentially, but 
bitcoin does not have a proprietary claim to block chain technology
¨ Bitcoin is a currency, but it is not a very good one: Bitcoin’s acceptance remains narrow and 
limited. There are simple reasons why it has not acquired wider acceptance. 
¤ It is inefficient, with transactions times and costs remaining high. 
¤ The wild volatility makes both buyers and sellers more reluctant to use it in transactions.
¤ With an absolute limit in numbers, it is destined for deflation in steady state, in 
economies with real growth.
As a ”dark” markets currency, it will be a niche currency, constantly on the run from 
regulators.
¨ Bitcoin is a collectible, but with a question mark on longevity : I have described Bitcoin as 
millennial gold, but there are two issues that they need to confront. 
¤ It has limits on quantity, that assumes that it has no substitutes. 
¤ The second is whether the desirability of bitcoin will endure, since much of it is built on 
its past price performance.
15
The 2020 Experience
16
Bitcoin’s future
¨ Does that mean that we are headed for a correction in one or both 
of these cryptos? Not necessarily, since momentum is a dominant 
force, and while momentum can and will break, the catalysts for 
that to happen are not obvious in either Bitcoin or Ethereum, 
precisely because they are unformed. 
¨ Since the end game (currency or collectible?) is still being hashed 
out, there are no markers against which progress is being 
measured, and thus, no disappointments or surprises that will lead 
to a reassessment. 
¨ Put simply, if you don't know where Bitcoin is going, how would 
you know if it is getting there? Let me suggest that this confusion 
serves the interests of bitcoin traders, keeping its prices volatile, 
but it comes at the expense of bitcoin’s long-term potential as a 
currency or collectible, which require more stability.
17
Investment Lessons
¨ Every investing class starts with a discourse on diversification, an 
age-old lesson of not putting your eggs in one basket, and
spreading your bets. In the last few decades, a combination of 
modern portfolio theory and data access has quantified this search 
for stability into a search for uncorrelated investments. 
¨ When I was learning investments, admittedly a lifetime ago, I was 
told to expand my stock holdings to foreign markets and real 
estate, because their movements were driven by different forces 
than my domestic stockholdings. 
¤ That was sensible advice, but as we (collectively as investors) piled into 
foreign stock funds and securitized real estate, we created an unwanted, 
but predictable consequence. The correlations across markets rose, 
reducing the benefits of diversification, and particularly so, during periods 
of crisis. 
¤ The co-movement of markets during the 2008 crisis has been well 
chronicled.
18
Correlations in 2020
