Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate4for2018.pdf

CURRENCY	CONUNDRUMS:	
JANUARY	2018	DATA	UPDATE	4
Aswath	Damodaran
2
The	Set	Up
¨ There	is	perhaps	no	more	mangled	nor	
misunderstood	part	of	financial	analysis	than	dealing	
with	currencies,	and	globalization	has	only	made	the	
problems	worse.	
¨ In	financial	analyses,	we	often	make	implicit	(and	
bad)	assumptions	about	currencies	and	these	feed	
into	our	valuations.
¨ I	look	at	three	of	the	most	common	misconceptions	
related	to	currencies	and	use	them	to	update	
currency	related	numbers	at	the	start	of	2018.
3
Misconception	1:	The	Government	Bond	
Rate	is	always	the	Risk	Free	Rate
¨ I	was	taught,	in	my	first	finance	class,	to	use	the	US	
treasury	bond	rate	as	the	risk	free	rate,	when	estimating	
expected	return,	reflecting	the	dollar-centric	world	of	my	
MBA	studies.
¨ The	notion,	though,	that	the	government	bond	rate,	
denominated	in	the	local	currency,	is	the	risk	free	rate	in	
that	currency	persists,	albeit	expanded	to	include	other	
currencies.	
¨ Thus,	we	are	told	to	use	the	Brazilian	$R	bond	as	the	$R	
risk	free	rate	and	the	Indian	rupee	government	bond	as	
the	Indian	rupee	risk	free	rate.	
¨ Its	proponents	argue	that	governments	control	the	
printing	of	money	and	hence	never	have	to	default.
4
But	the	facts	contradict	them..
¨ In	the	last	three	decades,	a	significant	proportion	of	
all	sovereign	defaults	have	been	local	currency	
defaults;	of	the	58	sovereign	defaults	between	1996	
and	2012,	31	were	in	the	local	currency.	
¨ As	to	why	countries	would	choose	to	default	in	the	
local	currency,	when	they	can	print	enough	money	
to	pay	off	debt,	the	answer	is	straight	forward.	
¨ Printing	more	money	debases	your	currency	and	
countries,	faced	with	a	choice	between	defaulting	
and	debasing	their	currencies.	often	conclude	that	
default	is	a	better	option.
5
So	what?	
¨ If	a	sovereign	entity	(or	government)	can	default	even	on	local	
currency	debt,	it	stands	to	reason	that	a	bond	issued	by	it	is	no	
longer	a	risk	free	rate.	In	fact,	using	that	government	bond	rate,	as	
if	it	were	a	risk	free	rate,	can	lead	to	the	double	counting	of	risk,	
especially	if	analysts	use	a	higher	equity	risk	premium	to	capture	
additional	country	risk.	
¨ For	instance,	consider	the	Nigerian	Naira	10-year	government	
bond,	trading	to	yield	14.12%	on	January	1,	2018.	If	that	rate	is	
used	as	the	risk	free	rate	in	Naira	for	a	Nigerian	company,	in	
conjunction	with	a	high	equity	risk	premium	for	Nigeria,	you	are	
counting	risk	twice	in	your	computation,	once	in	your	“risky”	risk	
free	rate	and	again	in	your	equity	risk	premium.	
¨ To	avoid	double	counting,	you	have	to	cleanse	the	government	
bond	of	default	risk	and	to	do	so,	you	have	to	estimate	how	much	
of	the	interest	rate	on	the	bond	can	be	attributed	to	default	risk.
6
Cleansing	the	Government	Bond	Rate
¨ There	are	three	ways	to	get	the	default	spread:
¤ Use	a	US	dollar	or	Euro	government	bond	issued	by	the	
sovereign	in	question	and	to	net	out	the	US	Treasury	Bond	rate	
or	the	German	Euro	bond	rate	as	the	risk	free	rates.
¤ The	sovereign	Credit	Default	Swap	on	the	sovereign	in	question,	
which	is	a	measure	of	the	default	spread	of	the	sovereign.	
¤ Use	the	sovereign	rating	estimated	by	S&amp;P,	Moody’s	or	
Fitch	for	a	country	and	to	estimate	the	typical	spread	at	which	
other	bonds	with	the	same	rating	trade	at.	
¨ The	problem	with	all	these	spreads	is	that	they	are	
dollar-based,	not	local	currency-based,	and	netting	these	
spreads	out	from	the	local	currency	government	bond	
can	create	an	inconsistency.
7
Risk	free	Rates	in	Currencies
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Misconception	2:	There	is	a	Global	Risk	
Free	Rate
¨ It	is	perhaps	understandable	that	an	analyst	who	looks	at	the	
differences	in	rates	across	currencies,	before	or	after	
adjusting	for	default	risk,	will	conclude	that	since	the	risk	free	
rate	is	the	lowest	of	the	rates	at	which	an	entity	can	borrow	
money,	the	lowest	of	the	rates	across	currencies,	perhaps	the	
Swiss	Franc	or	the	Japanese	Yen,	is	the	global	risk	free	rate	
and	that	all	other	currencies	are	risky.	
¨ That	is	a	dangerous	delusion,	since	there	is	a	simple	and	
powerful	reason	why	risk	free	rates	vary	across	currencies.	
The	risk	free	rate	in	a	currency	is	a	reflection	of	expected	
inflation	in	that	currency,	and	risk	free	rates	will	be	higher	in	
high-inflation	currencies	than	in	low-inflation	ones,	and	can	
become	negative	in	deflationary	currencies.
9
Implication	1:	No	blending	allowed!
¨ When	valuing	a	company	that	has	operations	in	
many	countries	and	derives	its	revenues	in	multiple	
currencies,	you	cannot	create	blended	averages	of	
risk	free	rates	or	growth	rates	in	different	currencies.	
¨ Doing	so	would	be	akin	to	averaging	the	
temperature	in	New	York	(measured	in	Fahrenheit)	
with	the	temperature	in	Frankfurt	(measured	in	
Celsius)	to	arrive	at	an	average	temperature	for	the	
two	cities.
10
Implication	2:	Differential	Inflation	can	
yield	risk	free	rates
¨ The	risk	free	rate	in	any	currency	can	be	estimated	
by	using	the	differential	inflation	rate	between	that	
currency	and	one	where	a	risk	free	rate	is	observable	
(like	the	US	dollar	or	the	Euro).\
¨ There	is	a	short	cut
¤ Local	Currency	Riskfree rate	=	US	$	Risk	free	Rate	+	
(Expected	Inflation	rate	in	local	currency	– Expected	
Inflation	rate	in	US	dollars)
11
Misconception	3:	Currency	choices	will	
drive	value
¨ When	valuing	a	company,	analysts	often	default	to	
valuing	it	in	the	local	currency,	but	currency	is	a	choice.	I	
can	value	Severstal,	a	Russian	steel	company,	in	rubles,	
US	dollars	or	Euros.	
¨ At	first	sight,	the	fact	that	risk	free	rates	are	lower	in	US	
dollars	and	Euros,	relative	to	the	ruble,	may	seem	to	
suggest	that	you	could	inflate	Severstal’svalue,	by	
switching	the	valuation	currency	from	rubles	to	dollars,	
but	you	will	not.	
¨ The	answer	lies	in	the	last	section,	where	we	noted	that	
risk	free	rates	vary	across	currencies,	because	of	
differential	inflation.
12
The	Currency	Consistent	Valuation
When estimating growth rates, remember that these 
growth rates include the inflation rate and be consistent 
with your currency choice.
If you are using expected exchange rates to convert cash flows 
from one currency to another, those expected exchange rates have 
to reflect differential inflation, i.e., use purchasing power parity.
13
The	Macro	Pushback
¨ The	other	push	back	that	you	will	get	is	that	your	views	on	a	
currency	can	cause	the	value	estimated	in	that	currency	can	
diverge.	For	instance,	if	you	expect	the	Brazilian	Reai to	
appreciate	against	the	US	dollar	for	the	next	few	years,	the	
value	of	Embraer	will	be	higher,	estimated	in	$R	than	in	US$.	
¨ While	that	is	true,	the	reason	for	the	divergence	has	nothing	
to	do	with	the	use	of	the	currency	and	everything	to	do	with	
bringing	your	currency	views	into	your	valuation.	
¨ Thus,	if	the	value	of	Embraer	is	20%	higher,	when	you	value	it	
in	$R	than	in	US$,	that	20%	difference	is	entirely	due	to	your	
view	that	the	$R	will	strengthen,	which	if	true,	you	can	profit	
from	in	simpler	and	more	direct	ways	than	buying	Embraer .
14
In	conclusion
¨ If	there	are	lessons	to	be	learned	from	looking	at	the	
dangers	of	mixing	currencies,	it	is	that	it	is	time	that	
we	stopped	being	casual	about	the	currencies	that	
we	measure	and	use	in	our	analysis.	
¨ At	the	risk	of	sounding	pedantic,	we	should	never	
estimate	a	growth	rate,	without	being	explicit	about	
what	currency	that	growth	rate	is	estimated	in,	or	
talk	about	cash	flows,	without	thinking	about	the	
inflation	that	we	have	embedded	in	them.
