Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/AirbnbIPO.pdf

THE SHARING ECONOMY COMES HOME: 
AIRBNB’S IPO! 
Look forward, you must!
2
A Long Awaited IPO
¨ On Monday, November 16, Airbnb filed it’s preliminary 
prospectus with the SEC, starting the clock on its long 
awaited initial public offering. 
¨ On the same day, rising COVID cases caused more shut 
downs and restrictions around the world, creating a 
clear disconnect: why would a company that derives its 
value from short term rentals by people who travel want 
to go public, when a out-of-control virus is causing its 
business to shut down?
¨ In this post, I will argue that there are good reasons for 
Airbnb's IPO timing, and make my first attempt at 
valuing this latest entrant into public markets.
3
Airbnb: A Time Line
4
With key features..
¨ Legal Challenges: The company has faced multiple challenges from 
cities that feel that its business model violates local zoning laws 
and regulations, and evades taxes. While you can attribute some of 
this pushback to hotel company lobbying and the inertia of the 
status quo, there is no doubt that Airbnb, like Uber, pushes 
regulatory and legal limits, taking action first and asking for 
permission later . While Airbnb has found a way to co-exist with 
laws in different cities, the restrictions vary widely across the 
world, with some locations (like New York) imposing much more 
stringent rules than others.
¨ Acquisitions: As the number of hosts and guests on Airbnb have 
climbed over the years, the company has invested in building a 
more robust platform for its rentals. While some of that money has 
been spent on internal improvements, much of it has been spent 
acquiring more than two dozen companies, most of them small, 
technology businesses.
5
Business Model
6
The Financial Payoffs..
7
Breaking down history…
¨ Growth is high, but the rate is declining: It may seem churlish too 
take issue with a company that has grown its revenues more than 
five fold over a five-year period, but as the company's base gets 
bigger, its growth rate, not surprisingly, is also declining. 
¨ Airbnb's revenue share has stayed stable: As gross bookings have 
increased, Airbnb's share of these bookings has remained stable, 
ranging from 12-13% of overall revenues. Note that the shift to the 
new business model for professional hosts (where Airbnb keeps 
14% of the transaction revenue) is relatively recent, and it will take 
some time for that change to play out in the numbers. 
¨ The company is edging towards profitability: To Airbnb's credit, it is 
closer to profitability than many of its high profile sharing-economy 
predecessors (such as Uber and Lyft) and the fact that it was able 
to report positive operating profits, albeit fleetingly in 2018, puts 
them ahead of the pack.
8
The COVID Effect.. In nights booked
9
And in financials..
10
Prospectus Revelations: On Costs
11
Prospectus Revelations: On Proceeds & Control
¨ Use of Proceeds: While the details are still being worked out, 
it is rumored that Airbnb is looking to raise about $3 billion in 
proceeds on the offering date, and that while some of the 
proceeds will be used to retire existing debt, most of it will be 
held by the company to cover future investment needs.
¨ Share classes: In keeping with the practices of tech 
companies that have gone public in recent years, Airbnb has 
shares with different voting rights: class A shares with one 
voting right per share, class B shares with 20 voting rights per 
share, and class C & class H shares with no voting rights per 
share. Not surprisingly, the class B shares will be held by 
founders and other insiders, allowing them control of the 
company, even if they own well below 50% of all shares 
outstanding.
12
An ESG Twist?
¨ It should come as no surprise that in an age where 
companies are valued on their "goodness", Airbnb is 
signaling it's intent to be socially responsible.
¨ Brian Chesky made explicit the corporate values for the 
company, including "having an infinite time horizon" and 
"serving all of our customers". 
¨ In addition, the proceeds from the non-voting class H 
shares will be set aside is an endowment to serve Airbnb 
hosts, though it is not clear whether the primary intent is 
to give hosts a stake in the company’s success, or to help 
them out during periods of need.
¨ I remain skeptical about ESG, but will hold off on passing 
judgment on whether this is just a public relations ploy.
13
The Hospitality Business
14
Airbnb’s TAM in 2011
15
Airbnb’s TAM in 2020
¨ In its prospectus, Airbnb has expanded its estimate of market 
potential to $3.4 trillion, as evidenced in this excerpt from the 
prospectus:
¤ We have a substantial market opportunity in the growing travel market 
and experience economy. We estimate our serviceable addressable market 
(“SAM”) today to be $1.5 trillion, including $1.2 trillion for short -term stays 
and $239 billion for experiences. We estimate our total addressable market 
(“TAM”) to be $3.4 trillion, including $1.8 trillion for short -term stays, $210 
billion for long -term stays, and $1.4 trillion for experiences.
¨ In my view, Airbnb's targetable market falls somewhere in the 
middle, clearly higher than just the hotel business of $600 billion, 
but below Airbnb's upper end estimate of $2 trillion for this 
business. 
¨ Given how much trouble Airbnb has had in the experiences 
business, I think Airbnb’s estimate of $1.4 trillion for that business 
is more fictional than even aspirational.
16
The Players: Hotels
17
The Players: Booking Companies
18
Airbnb vs Booking Companies
¨ Other businesses: Both Expedia and Booking.comalso operate in 
other businesses that drive revenues and margins. First, they 
generate revenues by buying blocks of hotel rooms at a discount 
from hotels, and then reselling them at a higher price, in what they 
call the "merchant" business. Second, they also derive revenues 
from online advertising by hotels and travel providers. Expedia gets 
a much larger share (47%) of its revenues from the merchant 
business than Booking.com (25%), which may explain its lower 
margins.
¨ Status Quo vs Disruption: Both Expedia and Booking.comwere 
designed to make money off the status quo and derived all of their 
revenues until recently from existing hotels and airlines. In reaction 
to Airbnb's success, both companies have tried to expand into the 
home and apartment rental businesses, but these listings still 
represent a small fraction of overall revenues.
19
The Airbnb Story
¨ Continued Growth : Airbnb will continue to grow, while finding a pathway to 
profitability. Airbnb's growth in gross bookings will come not only from disrupting 
and taking market share from the hotel business, bad news for conventional hotel 
companies and travel providers who serves them, but also from continued 
expansion of non -conventional hospitality providers (home and apartment 
owners). 
¨ Revenue share stable + Improving margins : As it grows, Airbnb's share of those 
gross bookings is likely to plateau at close to current levels, but its operating 
margins will continue to improve towards travel booking industry levels, as 
product development, marketing and G&A costs decrease, not in dollar terms, but 
as a percent of revenues. 
¨ Experiences business is tangential : While Airbnb is enthusiastic about the 
experiences business, it is likely to remain a tangential business, contributing only 
marginally to revenues and profitability. 
¨ Low Risk, for a young company : Since Airbnb has a light debt load and is closer to 
profitability than most of the sharing -economy companies that have gone public 
in recent years
21
The Key Drivers
23
Previewing the IPO Pricing Game
¨ A Pricing Game: While we can debate what Airbnb’s 
value truly is, an IPO is a pricing game. 
¤ Put simply, rather than operate under the delusion that it is 
value that drive decisions, it is healthier to recognize that 
bankers price IPOs, not value them, for the offering
¤ Much of the trading on the offering day and the weeks 
thereafter is driven by traders, trying to gauge mood and 
momentum. 
¨ To price an IPO, traders look at two places for guidance. 
¤ The first is the VC pricing of the company in the rounds leading 
into the public offering. 
¤ The second is the market pricing of publicly traded companies in 
the peer groups, companies that investors will compare the 
company to, in setting prices.
24
The VC Pricing of Airbnb
25
Peer Group Pricing
26
Pricing Airbnb
27
Pick your game..
¨ Play the trading game: In the trading game, value is a minor factor, 
at best. Your success will depend upon gauging the market mood 
and momentum on Airbnb and getting ahead of it.
¨ Play the investing game: Make your best assessment of value, and 
then base your decision on that value assessment. With my value 
assessment of $36 billion for the equity value:
¤ If equity is priced at <$28 billion (20% percentile): A bargain
¤ If equity is priced between $28 & $33 (40 th percentile) billion: A solid buy
¤ If equity is priced between $33 (40 th percentile) & $38 billion (60 th
percentile): A fair value
¤ If equity is priced between $38 (60 th percentile) & $ 44 billion (80 th
percentile): Too richly priced
¤ If equity is priced > $44 billion: Over valued
