Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate6.pdf

DATA	2017	UPDATE	6:	THE	COST	
OF	CAPITAL
Aswath	Damodaran
2
The	Swiss	Army	Knife	of	Finance
3
Cost	of	Capital:	The	Ingredients
4
Estimation	Specifics
5
Cost	of	Capital:	A	Global	Comparison
6
Why	costs	of	capital	vary	across	countries..
¨ Country	risk:	Country	risk	shows	up	in	two	places	in	the	cost	of	capital	
calculation,	the	equity	risk	premium	for	the	company	(which	is	set	equal	
to	the	equity	risk	premium	of	the	country	it	is	in)	and	an	default	spread	in	
the	cost	of	debt.
¨ Industry	concentration:	Since	my	measure	of	relative	risk	comes	from	
looking	at	the	global	beta	for	the	sector	in	which	a	company	operates,	the	
cost	of	capital	for	a	country	will	reflect	the	breakdown	of	industries	in	that	
country.	
¨ Marginal	tax	rate:	To	the	extent	that	a	higher	marginal	tax	rate	lowers	the	
after-tax	cost	of	debt,	holding	all	else	constant,	countries	with	higher	
marginal	tax	rates	will	have	lower	after-tax	costs	of	debt	and	perhaps	
lower	costs	of	capital.
¨ Debt	ratio:	Twinned	with	the	marginal	tax	rate,	in	computing	how	much	a	
company	is	being	helped	by	the	tax	benefit	of	debt,	is	the	amount	of	debt	
that	the	company	uses,	with	higher	debt	ratios	often	translating	into	
lower	costs	of	capital.
7
Costs	of	Capital	across	sectors:	Highs	and	
Lows!
8
Differences	across	sectors:	Probing	for	
reasons
¨ Business	risk:	Some	businesses	are	clearly	more	risky	than	
others	and	I	am	using	my	sector	betas	to	capture	the	
differences	in	risk.
¨ Leverage	differences:	Companies	in	some	sectors	borrow	
more	than	others,	with	mixed	effects	on	the	cost	of	capital.	
The	resulting	higher	debt	to	equity	ratios	push	up	sector	
betas	more,	leading	to	higher	costs	of	equity.	That,	though,	is	
more	than	partially	offset	by	the	benefit	of	raising	financing	
at	the	after-tax	cost	of	debt,	a	bargain	relative	to	equity.
¨ Country	exposure:	Some	industry	groupings	have	geographic	
concentrations	and	to	the	extent	that	those	concentrations	
are	in	countries	with	very	low	or	very	high	risk,	relative	to	the	
rest	of	the	world,	your	cost	of	capital	will	be	skewed	low	or	
high.
9
Cost	of	Capital:	Regaining	Perspective
10
Some	closing	thoughts
1. The	cost	of	capital	(or	any	discount	rate)	is	not	a	receptacle	
for	all	your	hopes	and	fears.	There	is	nothing	more	
dangerous	that	intuitively	tweaking	costs	of	capital;	you	
adjust	it	for	risks	that	you	should	not	adjusting	for	at	prices	
that	the	market	will	never	pay.
2. When	your	valuation	goes	wrong,	it	is	almost	always	the	
case	that	it	is	because	you	got	the	numerator	(cash	flows)	
wrong,	not	because	you	got	the	discount	rate	wrong.
3. The	cost	of	capital	is	not	the	input	that	you	should	be	
spending	the	bulk	of	your	time	in	a	valuation.
4. If	you	are	in	a	hurry	to	value	a	company,	use	the	
distributional	statistics	for	cost	of	capital(7%	for	a	safe	
company,	8%	for	an	average	risk	company	and	10%	for	a	
risky	company),	estimate	the	cash	flows	well	and	then	come	
back	and	fine	tune	the	cost	of	capital.
