Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Renaissance.pdf

INVESTING	LESSONS	FROM	THE	
ITALIAN	RENAISSANCE
Out	of	the	Dark	Ages
2
Brunelleschi’s	Dome
3
Lesson	1:	The	essence	of	faith
¨ The	original	plans	for	the	church	included	a	free	standing	
dome	of	unparalleled	size	(at	the	time).
¨ The	church	construction	was	started	in	1296	and	
suspended	a	few	decades	later,	with	the	dome	undone,	
since	the	know-how	for	building	the	dome	did	not	exist.	
For	a	century,	the	church	waited	for	someone	to	come	
along	until	Brunelleschi	came	along.
¨ If	you	are	an	investor,	you	are	operating	as	much	on	faith	
as	you	are	in	your	analysis,	and	when	your	faith	gets	
tested	because	a	stock	does	not	move	towards	a	value	
that	you	have	estimated,	remember	that	it	takes	time	for	
faith	to	be	rewarded.
4
Lesson	2:	There	are	no	new	lessons,	just	
old	lessons	to	be	relearned
¨ With	our	access	to	data	and	powerful	models,	we	tend	
to	think	that	we	are	not	only	better	than	investors	in	the	
past	but	that	we	are	immune	from	their	mistakes.	
¨ To	build	his	dome,	Brunelleschi	spent	time	in	the	
Pantheon	in	Rome,	a	free	standing	dome	built	more	than	
a	thousand	years	prior,	and	used	it	to	come	up	with	his	
dome	construction.
¨ Notwithstanding	our	sophisticated	models,	we	as	
investors	tend	to	make	the	same	mistakes	over	and	over	
again.	Even	as	we	repeat	these	mistakes,	we	keep	telling	
ourselves	“This	time	is	different” ..
5
Lesson	3:	Art	+	Science	=	Genius
¨ Brunelleschi	was	a	superb	artist,	well	versed	in	all	its	
forms	but	his	biggest	challenge	in	building	the	dome	
was	grappling	with	science.
¨ His	solution	is	both	an	artistic	and	scientific	triumph,	
and	like	other	artists	from	the	Renaissance,	
Brunelleschi	believed	that	art	and	science	go	hand	in	
hand.
¨ Drawing	an	analogy	to	investing,	a	blending	of	art	
(story	telling)	with	science	(number	crunching)	will	
deliver	more	long-standing	investment	triumphs.
6
Time	for	a	Renaissance
¨ We	live	in	a	world	of	specialists,	where	experts	
operate	in	silos	unaware	of	the	world	outside	their	
zones	of	expertise	and	unwilling	to	acknowledge	
their	existence.	
¨ If	the	essence	of	the	Renaissance	man	(or	woman)	
was	the	capacity	to	work	across	different	disciplines,	
investing	needs	some	Renaissance	thinking,	people	
who	are	capable	of
¤ Seeing	the	big	picture
¤ Understanding	the	links	across	markets
¤ Talking	to	those	in	the	trenches	in	different	markets
