Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate7for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 7: 
DEBT , NEITHER POISON OR 
NECTAR1
Aswath Damodaran
2
Debt: Emotional Overload?
¨ Debt is a hot button issue, viewed as destructive to 
businesses by some at one end of the spectrum and an 
easy value creator by some at the other . The truth, as is 
usually the case, falls in the middle. 
¨ In this post, I will look at debt ratios across companies, 
sectors and regions, with two big shifts in mind:
¤ Change in US corporate tax rate: It was reduced from close to 
40% to approximately 25%. 
¤ A Preview of a Coming Accounting change: I will look at the 
effect of capitalizing leases on profit margins and returns, 
because both IFRS and GAAP will finally do the right thing, and 
start treating leases as debt in 2019.
3
1. Debt: The Trade off
4
US Tax Reform
¨ At the start of 2018, the US tax code was changed in two 
ways that should have affected the tax benefits of debt:
¤ The federal corporate tax rate was lowered from 35% to 21%.
¤ Restrictions were put on the deductibility of interest expenses, 
with amounts exceeding 30% of taxable income no longer 
receiving the tax benefit.
¨ Since there were no significant changes to bankruptcy 
laws or costs, these tax code changes make debt less 
attractive, relative to equity, for all US companies.
5
Debt Changes across the World
6
Why did US companies not lower debt?
¨ Inertia: It is possible that it will be years before 
companies wake up to the changed tax environment 
and start borrowing less.
¨ Uncertainty about future tax rates: It is also possible 
that companies view the current tax code as a 
temporary phase and that the drop in corporate tax 
rates will be reversed by future administrations.
¨ Illusory and Transient Benefits: Many companies 
perceive benefits in debt that I term illusory, 
because they create value, only if you ignore the full 
consequences.
7
Illusory Trade offs on Debt
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Debt: Definition
9
Balance Sheet Tests for Debt: Gray Areas?
¨ the defining features for debt are contractual 
commitments, with a loss of control and default flowing 
from a failure to meet them, it follows that all interest 
bearing debt, short term as well as long term, bank loans 
and corporate bonds, are debt.
¨ Gray Areas:
¤ Accounts Payable and Supplier Credit: If interest expenses are 
explicit, treat as debt. If implicit, treat as working capital.
¤ Underfunded Pension and Health Care Obligations: If firm is 
required to contribute to cover obligations, treat as debt. If just 
informational, not…
10
Debt Details: Regional Breakdown
11
Debt Load: As percent of Capital
12
Debt Load: Relative to Earnings/Cash flows
13
Operating Leases: The Accounting 
Netherworld!
¨ In lease agreements, lease payments are clearly set out by 
contract, and failing to make these payments will lead to loss of 
that site, and the income from it. 
¨ You can argue that leases providing more flexibility that a bank loan 
and that defaulting on a lease is less onerous, because the claims 
are against a specific location and not the business, but those are 
arguments about whether leases are more like unsecured debt 
than secured debt, and not whether leases should be treated as 
debt. 
¨ For much of accounting history, though, accountants have followed 
a different path, treating only a small subset of leases as debt and 
bringing them on to the balance sheet as capital leases, while 
allowing the bulk of lease expenses as operating expenses and 
ignoring future lease commitments on balance sheets.
14
Converting Leases to Debt
1. Estimate a current cost of borrowing or pre -tax cost of debt for the company 
today, given its default risk and current interest rates (and default spreads).
2. Starting with the lease commitment table that is included in the footnotes 
today, discount each lease commitment back to today, using the pre- tax cost of 
debt as your discount rate (since the lease commitments are pre -tax). Most 
companies provide only a lump -sum value for commitments after year 5, and 
while you can act as if this entire amount will come due in year 6, it makes more 
sense to convert it into an annuity, before discounting.
3. The sum total of the present value of lease commitments will be the lease debt 
that will now show up on your balance sheet, but to keep the balance sheet 
balanced, you will have to create a counter asset.
4. To th e extent th at th e accou ntin g h as treated  th e cu rrent year's lease exp en se 
as an operating expense, you have to recompute the operating income, 
reflecting your treatment of leases as debt:
Adjusted Operating Income = Stated Operating Income + Current year's lease expense 
- Depreciation on the leased asset
15
The Lease Effect
16
The Most and Least Impacted Industries
17
Final Thoughts on Debt
¨ One of the biggest impediments to any rational discussion of debt's 
place in capital is the emotional baggage that we bring to that 
discussion. 
¨ Debt is neither poison, as some detractors claim it to be, nor 
nectar, as its biggest promoters describe it. It is a source of capital 
that comes with fixed commitments and the risk of default, good 
for some companies and bad for others, and when it does create 
value, it is because the tax code it tilted towards it. 
¤ It is true that some companies and investors, especially those in the 
leveraged space, over estimate its benefits and under estimate its side 
costs, but they will learn their lessons the hard way. 
¤ It is also true that other companies and investors, especially of the prudent 
sort, think that less debt is always better than more debt, and no debt is 
optimal, and they too are leaving money on the table, by being too 
conservative.
