Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BitcoinBlowback.pdf

BITCOIN	BLOWBACK:	BACK	TO	
THE	DRAWING	BOARD?
The	Crypto	Currency	Debate
2
The	Bitcoin	Debate
¨ My	thesis	that	Bitcoin	is	a	currency,	not	an	asset	or	a	
commodity,	got	some	pushback.
¨ Specifically,	there	were	some	who	argued	that	since	
you	can	lend	Bitcoin	and	earn	interest,	it	is	an	asset,	
and	since	it	is	scarce,	it	is	a	commodity.
¨ While	I	don’t	believe	that	there	is	much	basis	for	
these	arguments	with	Bitcoin,	the	crypto	currency	
world	is	a	diverse	one	and	what	is	said	about	Bitcoin	
may	not	apply	to	crypto	currency	or	ICOs.
3
The	Value	versus	Price	Debate
To	value To price
Assets Can	be	valued	based	upon
expected	cashflows,	with	
higher	cashflows &	lower	
risk	=	higher	value.
Can	be	priced	against	
similar	assets,	after	
controlling for	cash	flows	
and	risk.
Commodity Can	be	value	based	upon	
utilitarian	demand	and	
supply,	but	with	long	lags
in	both.
Can	be priced	against	its	
own	history	(normalized	
price	over	time)
Currency Cannot	be	value Can	be priced	against	
other	currencies,	with	
greater	acceptance	&	more	
stable	purchasing	power	=	
higher	price.
Collectible Cannot	be	value Can	be	priced based	upon	
scarcity	and	desirability.
4
Bitcoin	as	Asset:	Counter	Arguments
1. You	can	lend	Bitcoin	out	and	earn	interest
¤ Since	the	interest	income	is	then	a	cash	flow,	the	argument	is	
that	Bitcoin	is	an	asset.	
¤ The	counter	is	that	you	can	lend	any	currency	out	and	earn	
interest.	If	you	do,	it	is	the	loan	that	you	make	that	is	the	asset,	
not	the	currency	itself.
2. The	Bitcoin	network	has	value
¤ Extrapolating	from	the	tech	space,	where	companies	like	large	
network		companies	like	Facebook	have	value,	Bitcoin	has	
value	because	of	the	networking	benefit.	
¤ The	counter	is	that	an	investor	in	Facebook	is	not	valuing	it	
highly	because	it	has	a	big	network,	but	because	he	or	she	
makes	money	from	making	money	off	that	network	(by	selling	
advertising).
5
Currency	versus	Commodity
¨ The	essence	of	a	currency	is	that	its	primary	uses	are	as	
a	medium	of	exchange	or	as	a	store	of	value.	The	key	to	
a	commodity	is	that	it	is	an	input	into	a	process	that	has	
a	utilitarian	function.	
¨ Oil	and	coal	are	clearly	commodities,	since	they	derive	
their	value	from	the	fact	that	they	can	be	used	to	
produce	energy.	
¨ It	is	true,	as	with	currencies,	that	you	can	create	an	asset	
based	upon	a	commodity.	A	share	of	an	oil	well	is	an	
asset	not	because	you	like	or	even	need	oil,	it	is	because	
you	hope	to	sell	the	oil	to	generate	cash	flows.
6
Bitcoin	as	Commodity:	Counter	Arguments
1. Bitcoin	is	scarce
¤ Argument:	The	algorithm	imposed	limits	on	Bitcoin	effectively	
mean	that	it	will	be	scarce	and	if	it	is	scarce,	it	will	have	value.
¤ Counter:	There	are	lots	of	scarce	items	(sand	is	scarce	and	so	is	
bull	manure)	but	if	there	is	no	utilitarian	or	aesthetic	benefit,	
they	will	not	be	commodities.
2. Time	and	energy	was	spent	”mining”	Bitcoin
¤ Since	resources	were	expended	in	the	production	of	Bitcoin,	it	
must	have	value	as	a	commodity.	
¤ Not	really.	Not	unless	you	can	point	to	it	becoming	useful	as	an	
input	into	producing	something	that	we	value.
7
A	Commodity	Argument	for	Crypto	
Currencies
1. Block	Chains	and	Smart	Contracts	will	create	large	disruptions	in	
businesses:	Block	chains	and	the	smart	contracts	that	emerge	
from	them	will	replace	conventional	contracts	in	many	
businesses,	and	that	will	generate	cash	flows	to	the	contract	
providers.	
2. Crypto	Currencies	are	the	lubricants	for	smart	contracting:	Crypto	
currencies	are	a	necessary	ingredient	to	make	smart	contracts	
work	efficiently,	and	that	the	demand	for	them	will	then	rise	as	
smart	contracting	expands.
3. “Y our”	crypto	currency	will	be	one	of	the	winners:	Your	crypto	
currency	of	choice	(Bitcoin,	Ethereum etc.)	will	become	the	
winner	or	at	least	one	of	the	winners,	perhaps	because	it	has	the	
“best	technology”	for	smart	contracting	or	has	the	most	buy	in	by	
the	institutional	players	in	the	game.
8
Conclusion
¨ As	you	listen	to	arguments	for	or	against	crypto	
currencies,	my	only	advice	is	that	you	go	back	to	basics	
about	the	needs	that	they	are	filling	and	that	you	ask	
questions	about	their	long	term	staying	power .	
¨ It	is	time	for	us	to	separate	arguments	about	block	
chains/smart	contracts	from	arguments	about	crypto	
currencies,	since	you	can	have	one	without	the	other .
¨ It	is	also	time	that	we	differentiate	between	crypto	
currencies,	rather	than	defend	them	or	abandon	them	
all,	as	a	bundle.	Bitcoin,	Ethereum,	Ripple	and	 ICOs	are	
different	enough	from	each	other,	not	only	in	structure	
but	also	in	terms	of	end	game,	that	they	need	to	be	
assessed	independently.
