Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CoronaVirus.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET CRISIS: FEAR 
OR FUNDAMENTALS?
When markets drop…
2
The Crisis Test
¨ It has become almost a rite of passage for investors, at least since 
2008, that they will be tested by a market crisis precipitated 
sometimes by political developments (Brexit), sometimes by 
governments (trade wars), sometimes by war and terrorism (the 
US/Iran standoff) and sometimes by economics (Greek default). 
¨ With each one, the question that you face about whether this is 
the “big one” , a market meltdown that you have to respond to by 
selling everything and fleeing for safety (or the closest thing you 
can find to it) or just another bump in the road, where markets 
claw back what they gave up, and then gain more. 
¨ After yesterday’s global meltdown in equity markets, I think it is 
safe to say that we are back in crisis mode, with old questions 
returning about the global economic strength and market 
valuations. I have neither the stomach nor the expertise to play 
market guru, but I will go through my playbook for coping.
3
The Corona Virus: A Quick Overview from a 
Novice..
¨ It started in China: The virus (COVID-19) had its origins in China, though what caused it 
to spread into the human population is still unclear and rife with conspiracy theories. 
The Chinese government initially went into crisis mode, trying to control the 
information that is being made public and that has created both confusion and 
skepticism about official claims.
¨ And it has had a toll: Within China, the virus has had its biggest impact in the Wuhan 
province, but it has affected other parts, though there is still not clear by how much or 
how many. The count, which is obviously a moving target, is that there are more than 
80,000 cases of the virus, with more than 2700 fatalities so far . 
¨ It is jumping borders: The most immediate spread has been to the neighboring Asian 
countries, with Singapore being an early casualty and South Korea a recent-add on. 
Over the weekend, though, the Italian government set alarm bells ringing with an 
announcement of a large cluster of cases in the country, which suggests that earlier 
assessments that the virus was not easily communicable may need to be rethought, 
and it was this news that seems to have precipitated this week’s sell off. 
¨ And has no cure: There is no cure or vaccine yet for the virus, but the mortality rate 
from the virus seems to vary across the population, with the very young and the very 
old being the most likely to die from it.
4
Perspective!
5
A Framework for assessing value effects
6
1. Earnings Growth
¨ Earnings Growth: Even at this early stage in this crisis, it is clear that 
the virus is having an effect on corporate operations. With some 
companies like hotels and airlines, the effect that the virus has had 
on global travel has clearly had an effect on revenues and 
operations. With others, it is concerns about supply chains. The 
follow up question then becomes one of specifics:
¤ Drop in 2020 Earnings: This is the number that will reflect how you see 
Corona Virus affect the collective earnings on stocks in 2020. This will 
include not only earnings declines caused by lower revenues growth at 
companies like United Airlines, but also the earnings decline caused by 
higher costs faced by companies due to virus related problems (supply 
chain breakdowns). The wider the swathe of companies 
¤ Drop in long term Earnings: In previous crises, where consumers and 
workers stayed home, either for health reasons or because of fear, the 
business that was lost as a result of the peril was made up for, when it 
passed. It is important that we ask this question, because this effect will 
dominate, when it comes to trying to explain value.
7
Earnings Growth Effects
8
2. Cash Return
¨ In 2019, the companies in the S&P 500 returned 92.33% 
of their earnings to investors in dividends and buybacks, 
a reflection not only of how much their cash flows were 
that year but also how confident they were in their 
capacity to generate cash flows in the future. 
¤ That high number reflects not only the cash that many US 
companies had on hand, but a confidence that they could 
maintain earnings and continue to pay out cash flows. 
¨ To the extent that this confidences is shaken by the virus, 
you may see a pull back in this number to perhaps 
something closer to the 85.24% that is the average for 
the last decade.
¨ .
9
3. Equity Risk Premiums
¨ The required return on stocks will be impacted, with one 
of the effects being explicit and visible in markets, in the 
form of the US treasury bond rate and the other being 
implicit, taking the form of an equity risk premium. 
¨ If investors become more risk averse, they will demand a 
higher ERP , though as the fear factor fades, this number 
will fall back as well, but perhaps not to what it was prior 
to the crisis. 
¨ The fact that the equity risk premium is already at the 
higher end of the historical norms, at about 5.50% on 
February 25, 2020, does indicate limits, but there could 
be a short-term jump in the number, at least until there 
is less uncertainty.
10
”My” S&P 500 Valuation
11
Action Phase?
¨ The bottom line with my calculations is that I am inclined to do very little, 
at the moment. I don’t feel the urge to buy the market, because there is a 
plausible case to be made that the adjustment in value, steep and 
sudden, was merited. I feel little need to sell either, because I don’t see an 
over valuation large enough to trigger action. 
¨ As for whether I should be reducing my exposure to companies that are 
directly affected by the virus (hotels and airlines) and increasing my 
exposure to companies that are more insulated, I don’t believe there will 
be any segment of the market that is fully protected from the 
consequences, no matter how far you get from China and from travel -
oriented companies.  
¨ I am loath to offer advice, but my only suggestion is that rather than listen 
to the experts on either side of this debate tell you what to do, you should 
make your own best judgments, recognizing that they can and will change 
as more facts emerge, and act accordingly.
