Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/IPODisclosure.pdf

TRIGGERED DISCLOSURES: 
ESCAPING THE DISCLOSURE 
DILEMMA!
Backing up company stories…
2
Recapping the Disclosure Dilemma
¨Ina post a few weeks ago, I argued that the disclosure 
process had lost its moorings, as corporate disclosures 
(annual filings, prospectuses for IPOs) have become more 
bulky, while also become less informative at the same time. 
¨I argued that some of this disclosure opacity could be 
attributed to the law of unintended consequences, with good 
intentions driving disclosure rules, and that some of it is 
deliberate, as companies use disclosure rules to create more 
complexity.
¨In this post, I propose one way out of the disclosure dilemma, 
albeit one with little chance of being adopted by the SEC or 
any other regulatory group, to the disclosure problem.
3
The Disease
¨Company disclosures have become more bulky over time, 
whether it be in the form on annual filings (like annual 
reports or 10K/10Q filings in the US) or prospectuses for 
initial public offerings. 
¨These disclosures have become less readable and more 
difficult to make sense of, partly because they are so bulky 
and partly because disclosures with big consequences are 
mingled with disclosure with small or even no consequences, 
often leaving it up to investors to determine which ones 
matter . 
¨The net effect is that investors feel more in the dark now, 
when investing in companies, than ever before, even though 
the push towards more disclosures hasostensibly been for 
their benefit.
4
The Diagnosis
¨ The first is that technology has made it possible to collect more data, and on 
more dimensions of business, than ever before in history, and report that 
data. The second is that interest groups have become much more savvy about 
lobbying regulatory groups and accounting rule writers to get their required 
data items on the required list. The third is that companies have learned that 
converting disclosures into data dumps has the perverse effect of making it 
less likely that they will held accountable, rather than more. 
¨ That said, there are three other reasons for the disclosure bloat:
¤ The first is the prevailing orthodoxy in disclosure is tilted towards "one size fits all", where all 
companies are covered by disclosure requirements, even if they are only tangentially exposed. 
¤ The second is the notion ofmateriality, where ‘Information is material if omitting, misstating 
or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of 
general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements, which 
provide financial information about a specific reporting entity’.
¤ The third is that thedisclosure rule writers happen to be in the disclosure business, and since 
more disclosure is good for business, the conflict of interest will always tilt toward more rather 
than less disclosure.
5
Escaping the Disclosure Trap
¨There is a way out of this disclosure trap, but it will 
require a rethink of the status quo in disclosures. 
¤It starts first by moving away from "one size fits all" disclosure 
rules to disclosures tailored to companies, a "triggered" 
disclosure process, 
¤where a company's contentions about its business model and 
value trigger disclosures on the parameters of that model. 
¤It extends into materiality, by reframing that concept in terms of 
value, rather than profits, and connecting it to disclosure, with 
disclosure requirements increasing proportionately with the 
value effect. the disclosure business.
6
1. One Size does not fit all!
¨At the time, the notion that it disclosure requirements should be general, 
and apply to all companies, was rooted in the idea of fairness. 
¨In the decades since, there have been carve outs to this general rule, but 
they have been narrowly carved out for segments of firms. For instance, 
oil companies have been required to disclose their ownership of "proven 
undeveloped reserves", in addition to details about quantity, new 
investments and progress made during the year in converting those 
reserves. These exceptions notwithstanding, disclosure laws written to 
cover concerns in one section (such as the issue and prevalence of 
management options with technology firm or lease commitments at retail 
and restaurant companies) have been applied broadly to all companies. 
¨It is time to rethink this principle and allow for a more variegated 
disclosure policy, with some disclosures required only of subsets of 
companies. Since the next big bout of disclosures that are coming down 
the pike will be related to ESG, this discussion will play out in a wide range 
of ESG data items.
7
2. From earnings-based to value-based 
materiality
¨While we may agree with the premise that any information that has a 
material effect should be disclosed, but there is disagreement on what 
comprises materiality.
¨I believe that the "materiality principle" is diluted by measuring it in terms 
of impact on net income and the fact that accountants tend to be 
naturally conservative in measuring that impact. Simply put, it is safer for 
an accounting or audit firm to assume that a disclosure is material, and 
include it in reports, even if it turns out to be immaterial, than it is to 
assume that it is immaterial, and be found wrong subsequently. 
¨One solution to this problem is to redefine materiality in terms of effects 
on value, rather than earnings, thusaccomplishing two objectives. 
¤First, it will reduce thenumber of noise disclosures, i.e., those that passthe 
materiality threshold for earnings, but don't have a significant impact on value. 
¤Second, since value is driven by expected cash flows in the future and not in the 
past, it will shift the focus ondisclosures to itemsthat will have a recurring or 
continuous impact on the company.
8
3. Triggered Disclosures
¨Triggered disclosures, where disclosures are tailored 
to a company's make-up and valuation stories, are 
one solution.
¤For instance, a company that claims that brand name is its 
supreme competitive advantage would then have to 
provide information to not only back up that claim, but 
also to allow others to value that brand name.In contrast, 
a company that does not have any pretentions about brand 
name driving its value (Exxon Mobil, even Walmart) should 
not be covered by those disclosure requirements.
9
Application: Initial Public Offerings
¨Iwillfocusoninitialpublicofferings,wherethereisasense
thatthedisclosurerulesarenothavingtheirdesiredeffect.
¨Inmylastpost,Inotedthatprospectuses,theprimary
disclosuredocumentsforacompaniesgoingpublic,have
bulkedup,contrastingtheMicrosoftandAppleprospectuses
thatcameinatlessthana100pagesinthe1980stothe400+
pageprospectusesthatwehaveseenwithAirbnband
Doordashinmorerecentyears.
¨Atthesametime,applyingadisclosuretemplatelargely
designedformaturepubliccompaniestoyoungcompanies,
oftenwithbiglossesandunformedbusinessmodels,has
resultedinprospectusesthatarefocusedinlargepartson
detailsthatareoflittleconsequencetovalue,whileignoring
thedetailsthatmatter.
10
Triggered Disclosures in Prospectuses
¨Since companies going public often do so on the basis of 
stories that they tell about their futures, and these stories 
vary widely across companies, this segment of the market 
lends itself well to the triggered disclosure approach. 
¨To do so, I will drawon a paper that I co-wrotewith Dan 
McCarthy and Maxime Cohen, to provide details. In that 
paper, we argue that a going-public company that wants to 
build its story around certain dimensions (a large total 
addressable market or a large user base) will trigger 
disclosure of a more systematic, business type-specific, 
collection of “base disclosures” that are required to 
understand the economics of businesses of that type, 
whatever type that might be.
11
a. Total Addressable Market (TAM)
Companies going public have increasingly supported high valuations by pointing 
to market potential, using large TAMs as one of the justifications. These TAMs 
are often not only aspirational, but also come with very little justification and no 
timeline for how long it will take for the existing market sizes to grow into those 
TAMs.
12
TAM Constraints
¨a. Basis for TAM and its antecedents: Companies that specify a TAM 
should also specify the existing market size (i.e., the serviceable 
addressable market or SAM), as well as additional “bridges” so that 
investors can understand the evolution from SAM to TAM. Investors who 
may be skeptical of a lofty TAM could still look to SAM as a more 
achievable intermediate metric.
¨b. Market share estimates: As long as companies do not have to twin TAM 
with expectations of market share, there is little incentive for them to 
restrain themselves when estimating TAM. We would recommend 
requiring that companies that disclose TAM figures couple them with 
forecasts of their market share of those TAM figures. 
¨c. Ongoing metrics or measures: Companies usually provide TAM, SAM, 
and variants thereof on a one-shot basis, disclosing these figures in their 
pre-IPO prospectuses and then never again. We believe that investors 
should be given these measures on an ongoing basis.
13
b. Subscription based companies
14
Subscription Information
¨ Total  subsc ri be r count: The most basic prerequisite is that we observe the total number of 
subscribers in each period, to track overall growth trends in the number of subscribers and to 
understand how revenue per subscriber evolves over time.
¨ Subscriber churn: To value a subscriber, a key input is the renewal rate or its converse, the churn 
rate. Holding all else constant, a subscription business with a higher renewal rate should have 
more valuable subscribers than one with a lower renewal rate. 
¨ Contribution profitability: It is not enough to retain customers –for customers to be valuable, they 
need to generate incremental profits while they are alive. It is important to know, then, how 
customers monetize over time and how this translates into variable profitability (more commonly 
referred to as “contribution profitability”). 
¨ Subscriber acquisitions & drop offs: To move from the value of a single subscriber to the value of 
the entire subscriber base, we must also know how many subscribers are acquired over time, not 
just the net subscriber count. 
¨ Cost of acquiring subscribers (CAC): Subscription-based companies attract new subscribers by 
offering special deals or discounts, or through paid advertising. While the cost of acquiring 
subscribers can sometimes be backed out of other disclosures at subscription-based companies 
(such as subscribers numbers, churn and marketing costs), it would make sense to require that it 
be explicitly estimated and reported by the company.
¨ Cohort data: While many subscriber companies are quick to report total numbers, only a provide a 
breakdown of subscribers, based upon subscription age. This breakdown, called a cohort table, can 
be informative to observe retention and/or monetization patterns across cohorts.
15
A Cohort Table
16
c. Transaction based companies
17
Transactional Information 
¨Active customer count: We replace the notion of an “alive” customer, 
which is relevant for subscription-based companies, with that of an 
“active” customer, which is more suitable for transaction-based 
businesses. An active customer is one who has placed at least one order 
over some preceding time window. 
¨Total orders: In transaction-based companies, the average purchase 
frequency of active customers can change, often significantly, over time. 
We need to know the total orders because this further allows us to 
decompose changes in revenue per active customer into changes in order 
frequency per active customer and changes in average order value. 
¨Promotional activity: It can be easy to significantly increase purchase 
activity through enticing targeted promotions, creating the illusion of 
rapid growth that may not be sustainable over the long run, due to their 
substantial cost. Since these promotions are often reported as revenue 
reductions, rather than expenses, the cost of these campaigns are often 
opaque, to investors.
18
d. Fintech Companies
¨Quality/Risk metrics on operating activity: In the aftermath of the 2008 
crisis, banks, insurance companies and investment banks have all seen 
their disclosure requirements increase, but ironically, the young, 
technology-based companies that have entered this space seem to have 
escaped this scrutiny. In fact, the absence of a regulatory overlay at these 
companies makes this oversight even more dangerous, since an online 
lender that uses a growing loan base as its basis for a higher valuation, 
but does not report on the default risk in that loan base, is a problem 
waiting to blow up.
¨Capital Buffer: In the last century, regulators have replaced these 
voluntary capital set asides, at banks and insurance companies, with 
regulatory capital needs, tied (sometimes imperfectly) to the risk in their 
business portfolios. Many fintech companies have been able to avoid that 
regulatory burden, largely because they are too small for regulatory 
concern, but since they are not immune from shocks, they too should be 
building capital buffers and reporting on the magnitude of these buffers 
to investors.
19
Conclusion
¨As data becomes easier to collect and access, the demands for data 
disclosure from different interest groups will only increase over 
time, as investors, regulators, environmentalists and others 
continue to add to the list of items that they want disclosed.
¨That will make already bulky disclosures even bulkier, and in our 
view, less informative.
¨There are three ways to have your cake and eat it too:
¤Allow for increasing customization of disclosure requirements to the firms 
in question, since requiring all firms to report everything not only results in 
disclosures becoming data dumps, but also in the obscuring of the 
disclosures that truly matter . 
¤Shift the materiality definition from impact on earnings to impact on 
value, thus moving the focus from the past to the future. 
¤Tying disclosures to a company's characteristics and value stories will limit 
those stories and create more accountability.
