Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CGTaxes.pdf

INVESTOR TAXES AND STOCK 
PRICES
Aswath Damodaran
2
The other shoe drops…
¨In my last post, I looked at the Biden Administration's proposal to 
increase corporate taxes, to provide funding for an infrastructure 
bill. 
¨In the weeks since, the administration has come up with its follow-
up proposal, this one funded by increases in individual taxes, 
primarily on the wealthy. While one part of the proposal, reversing 
the 2017 tax cuts for those in the highest tax brackets from 39.6% 
to 37%, was anticipated, the other one, almost doubling the capital 
gains tax rate for those making more than a million dollars in 
investment income, was a surprise. 
¨While supporters of the increase point to the fact that only a very 
small portion of individuals will be affected by the change, those 
individuals, through their wealth, own a significance percentage of 
financial assets, and how they react to the change, assuming it 
happens, will determine whether their pain will become all of ours.
3
Taxing Investment Income versus Earned 
Income: Reasons for differences!
¨Prevent or reduce double taxation: One argument, grounded in 
fairness, is that it is wrong to subject the same income to multiple 
tax hits, and it can be argued that dividend and capital gain income 
is particularly exposed to this critique. The dividends that 
companies pay comes out of the earnings that they have left over 
after corporate taxes, and taxing that dividend again, when 
investors receive it, is clearly double taxation
¨Encourage savings/ capital formation: In an economy, where 
private capital is behind the bulk of economic investment and 
growth, governments are dependent up the health of capital 
markets (stocks and bonds) for continued growth. To encourage 
investors to put their savings into stock and bond markets, the tax 
code is sometimes tilted to make these investments more 
attractive.
4
The US Tax Code for Individuals
¨In the United States, the discussion of what individuals 
pay as taxes on their investment income is complicated 
by where that investment income originates.
¨Income on an individual's holdings in a pension fund or a 
Roth IRA account are tax exempt, at least while they 
continue to stay in that account, but income from the 
rest of the individual portfolio are taxed. 
¨On top of all of this complexity is estate and inheritance 
tax law, where when an individual dies, the investments 
in his or her estate can be marked to market, without 
any tax consequences, allowing those capital gains to be 
sheltered from taxes.
5
Classifying Income for taxes
6
US taxation of Investment Income: History
7
Pre and Post Tax Returns from Investing
¨ Assume that you are a taxable investor who pays a 25% tax rate and that you are considering 
investing in a company, where you believe that you need to make 6%, after personal taxes, to 
break even. You will need to make 8% on a pre-personal tax basis, to break even:
Pre-personal tax return (with 25% tax rate)
= Post-personal tax/ (1-personal tax rate) = 6%/ (1-.25) = 8%
¨ If the tax rate were raised to 40%, all else being held equal, your expected pre-personal tax return 
will have to increase to 10%:
Pre-personal tax return (with 40% tax rate)
= Post-personal tax/ (1-personal tax rate) = 6%/ (1-.40) = 10%
¨ Extending this concept to actually investingin stocks, you are faced with complications. The first is 
that youpre-personal tax return on stocks is composed of dividends and price appreciation, and as 
we noted in the earlier section, the tax rates on the two can diverge. Thus, the post personal-tax 
return on stocks can be written as:
¤ Post-personal tax return on stocks = Dividend yield (1 -tax rate on dividends) + Expected Price Appreciation 
(1 -tax rate on capital gains)
¨ Thus, if a stock has a 2% dividend yield and an expected price appreciation of 6%, and your tax 
rates were 20% for dividends and 40% for capital gains, your post-personal tax return would be:
¤ Post-personal tax return = 2% (1-.20) + 6% (1-.40) = 5.20%
8
Historical Returns on Stocks, Bonds and Bills
9
Forward-looking Expected Returns
10
Pre and Post Personal Taxes: Current Tax Law
11
Pre andPostPersonal Taxes: Proposed Tax Law
12
Updated Index Value
13
Thoughts on Tax Law
¨ Not only does it pick on a tiny group of individuals as deserving of paying more in 
taxes, but it seems to be motivated less by the desire to raise revenues, and more 
by the urge to punish. 
¤ The wealthiest among us can afford to pay more in taxes, but insulting them or treating them 
as a pariah class,while asking them to pay more, will only induce them to find ways to avoid 
doing so, and who can blame them?
¤ If they decide to do so, this is also the group with the most weapons at its disposal for 
sheltering income from taxes, and I have afeeling that one group that will clearly benefit, if 
this proposalgoes through, are tax accountants and lawyers.
¨ If you are not among thattiny targeted group, it is delusional to think that forcing 
individuals in this group to pay more in taxes will have no effect on you, since this 
group punches well above its weight. There is a very realdanger here that as we 
take aim at what we think are the idle rich, we risk shooting ourselves in the foot.
¨ Finally, if the most effective tax codes are simple and direct, changes like the 
proposed one, where segments of taxpayers are assessed ahigher tax rate on 
portions of income are exactly what cause them to become complex and 
inefficient.
14
A Preemptive Defense
¨ When I started this post, my intent was less to focus in on the Biden proposal, and more to open a 
discussion of how personal taxes affect not only valuation, but also corporate finance behavior . 
That effect is often missed by analysts because it is not explicitly part of the valuation of publicly 
traded companies, but it implicitly plays a role, and perhaps even a key one. 
¤ Investor behavior: As capital gains and dividend tax rates are changed, the changes percolate through into 
expected returns and risk premiums, and through those into value. It is one more reason that blindly using 
historical risk premiums can lead to static and strange values. 
¤ CorporateBehavior: Companies, faced with investing, financing and dividend questions, may answer them 
differently, when personal taxes change. Thus, is it possible that the increase in capital gains taxes could 
reduce cash returned, especially in the form of buybacks? Absolutely, and especially so at closely held firms. 
¨ For governments, changing the tax rates on investment income to increase tax revenues is fraught 
with uncertainties. For instance, if the capital gains tax change goes through, it will almost certainly 
not begin until 2022, and there will be a significant amount of selling towards the end of 2021, as 
some wealthy investors lock in the current favorable capital gains tax rate. Going forward, a higher 
expected return on stocks will mean lower market valuations, which reduces capital gains in 
general, and tax collection from those capital gains, as a consequence. One reason to be wary of 
government forecasts of large tax collections from increases in capital gains tax rates is that these 
forecasts are built on the presumption that the market is the goose that lays this golden egg, since 
rising markets deliver higher capital gains, and the tax rate hike may kill that goose.
