Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate5for2024.pdf

DATA UPDATE 5: PROFITABILITY , 
THE ACID TEST FOR BUSINESS
The Business End Game
2
The Lead In!
¨In my last three posts, I looked at the macro (equity risk premiums, 
default spreads, risk free rates) and micro (company risk measures) 
that feed into the expected return we demand on investments and 
argued that these expected returns become hurdle rates for 
businesses, in the form of costs of equity and capital. 
¨Since businesses invest that capital in their operations, generally, 
and in individual projects (or assets), in specific, the big question is 
whether they can generate enough in profits to meet these hurdle 
rate requirements. 
¨In this post, I start by looking at the end game for businesses, and 
how that choice plays out in investment rules for these businesses, 
and then examine how much businesses generated in profits in 
2023, scaled to both revenues and invested capital.
3
The End Game in Business: The Corporate 
Finance Perspective
4
Profits and Value: The Link
¨While capitalism and private business are described as 
profit maximizers, the truth is more subtle, since it is 
value that you want to maximize in a business. 
¨For some companies, especially mature ones, value and 
profit maximization may converge, but for most, they 
will not. 
¤Thus, a company with growth potential may be willing to access 
less in profits now, or even losses, to advance its growth 
prospects. 
¤In fact, the biggest critique of the companies that have emerged 
in this century, many in social media, tech or even green energy, 
is that they have been prioritized scaling up and growth so much 
that they have failed to pay attention to profitability.
5
Corporate Stakeholders
6
Confused Corporatism!
7
Back to Value Maximization!
¨ It may seem odd that I am spending so much time defending the 
centrality of profitability to a for-profit business, but it is a sign of 
how distorted this discussion has become that it even necessary.
¨You mayfind my full-throated defense of generating profits and 
creating value to be distasteful, but if you are an advocate for the 
point of view that businesses have broader social purposes, the 
reality is that for businesses to do good, they have tobe financial 
healthy and profitable. 
¨Consequently, you should be just as interested, as I am, in the 
profitability of companies around the world, albeit for different 
reasons. My interest is in judging them as businesses and 
investments, and yours would be to see if they are generating 
enough as surplus so that they can do good for the world.
8
Profitability: Measures and Scalars
9
The Skewing Factors..
¨The first is the explicit role of accounting in 
measuring profits. That implies that inconsistent 
accounting rules will lead to profits being 
systematically mis-measured, a point I have madein 
my postson how R&D is routinely mis-categorized by 
accountants. 
¨The other is the implicit effect of tax laws, since 
taxes are based upon earnings, and there is an 
incentive to thus understate earnings or even report 
losses, on the part of some businesses, to reduce or 
avoid paying taxes.
10
Global Profits in 2023…
11
Profit Margins: Variants
12
Profit Margins, by Sector
13
Profit Margins, by Region
14
A Corporate Life Cycle View of Profitability
15
Profit Margins: By Age Decile
16
Return on Investment: Variants
17
Returns, by Sector
18
Excess Returns
Aswath Damodaran
19
Excess Returns: By Sector
Aswath Damodaran
20
Excess Returns: By Region
21
Excess Returns: Summing up!
22
Back to the End Game!
¨Istartedthispostbytalkingabouttheendgameinbusiness,
arguingthatitshouldremainprofitabilityasastartingpoint
andvalueastheendgoal.Thecriticsofthatendgame,who
wanttoexpandtheendgametoincludemorestakeholders
andabroadermission(ESG,Sustainability)allseemtobe
operatingonthepresumptionthatshareholdersaregettinga
muchlargersliceofthepiethantheydeserve.
¨Thatmaybetrue,ifyoulookatthebiggestwinnersinthe
economyandmarkets,butintheaggregate,thegameof
businesshasonlybecomeharderovertime,asglobalization
hasleftcompaniesscrabblingtoearntheircostsofcapital.
¨Infact,adecadeoflowinterestratesandinflationhaveonly
madethingsworse,bymakingriskcapitalaccessibletoyoung
companies,eagertodisruptthestatusquo.
