Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TrillionMktCap.pdf

MARKET CAP THRESHOLDS AND 
BREAKEVEN REVENUES
$5trillions?ImpossibleorjustSpecial?
2
Market Capitalization Thresholds!
¨ Stock markets have always rewarded winners with large capitalizations, 
and with each new threshold, the questions begin anew of whether 
animal spirits or fundamentals are driving the numbers. 
¨A few weeks ago,Nvidiaseemed unstoppable as its market capitalization 
crested $5 trillion, and while markets have turned skeptical since, the core 
questions have not gone away, and the answers come from two extremes. 
¤At one end are the "realists”, who view themselves as rational, above the fray and 
entirely data-driven, who argue that there is no business model that can support a 
value this high, and that Nvidia is overvalued. 
¤At the other end are the “AI true believers”, who believe that if the market the 
company is going after is big enough, and they see AI as such a market, the upper 
bounds on value are released, the sky is the limit. 
¨Rather than try to convince you that the company is under or overvalued, 
which is really your judgment to make, I will offer a simple model to 
reverse engineer from any given market capitalization, the revenues and 
profitability thresholds you have tomeet, and allow you to come to your 
own conclusions.
3
A History on Market Cap Thresholds
4
And lessons from that history…
1. Substance:Shiftfromcompaniesthathadalreadymetthetestand
deliveredinthetwentiethcenturytomoregrowthinthetwentyfirst
century.
2. Lifecycle:Everycompanythatclimbedtothetopofthemarketcaptables
andhitamarketcapthresholdhistoricallyhashadsingle-digitrevenue
growthintheyearleadingup,withtwoexceptions:Microsoftin1999,
whichwascomingoffa28%revenuegrowthratein1998,andNvidiain
both2024and2025comingoffevenhighergrowthrates.
3. Investmentreturns:Lookingatthereturnsintheyearsafterthese
companieshittheirmarketcapthresholds,theresultsaremixed.While
buyingApplein2018,2020,or2022wouldhaveyieldedwinningreturns,
atleastoverthenextyearortwo,buyingMicrosoftin1999wouldnot.In
someofthesecases,extendingthetimehorizonwouldhavemadea
difference,forthepositivewithMicrosoftandforthenegativewithGE.
5
Cheap or Expensive?
¨Debates about whether a company is worth what it is trading for, 
whether it be a billion, ten billion, a hundred billion, or a trillion, 
devolve into shouting matches of "he said, she said", with each side 
staking out divergent perspectives on value and name-calling the 
other . 
¨Having been on the receiving end of some of that abuse, I decided 
to take a different pathway to examining this question. 
¨Rather than wonder whether Nvidia is worth five trillion or Eli Lilly 
is worth a trillion, I framed the question in terms of how much 
Nvidia or Eli Lilly would have to generate in revenues to justify 
their market capitalizations. 
¨The reason for my focus on revenues is simple since it is relatively 
unaffected by accounting games and can be compared to the total 
market size to gain perspective.
6
Intrinsic Equity Value
7
Intrinsic Equity Value in Steady State
8
Breakeven Revenues, given Market Cap
1.Cost of equity: Every month, I estimate the implied cost of equity for the S&P 
500, and that number is model-agnostic and driven by what investors are willing 
to pay for stocks, given their fears and hopes. 
2.Inflation rate: While inflation has come down from its 2022 highs, it has stayed 
stubbornly above 2%, which theFedclaims as its target, and it seems more 
realistic to assume that it will stay at 2.5%, which is consistent with the riskfree 
rate being about 4%.
3.Stable growth rate (nominal growth rate in the economy): This is a number 
that is in flux, as economists worry about recessions and economic growth, but 
since this is a long-term number that incorporates expected inflation, it seems 
reasonable to assume an expected nominal growth of 4% for the economy 
(about 1.5% real growth).
9
Nvidiaat$5trillion:BreakevenRevenues
¨The cost of equity for the average US company, in November 2025, was 
about 8%. Allowing for the higher risk that Nvidia faces, I will use a cost of 
equity of 9% for the firm.
¨The net profit margin for Nvidia in the most recent twelve months has 
been 53.01%, an exceptionally high number, and the return on equity it 
has earned, on average over the last five years, is about 64.44%. 
¨I know that these numbers will come under pressure over time, as 
competition forAI chipspicks up, and Nvidia's biggest customers (and 
chip maker) push for their share of the spoils.
¨Evenif you assume that Nvidia can maintain these margins, the revenue 
that Nvidia would have to deliver to justify its value is $483.38 billion.
10
TheWaitingEffect
¨If you are not in steady state and need to grow 
(which will require investment) to get to these 
revenues, the breakeven revenues will get larger, r, 
the longer you have towait and the lower the cash 
yield that equity investors receive during the growth 
period. 
¨WithNvidia, if you assume that it will take five years 
for them to grow to steady state, and that equity 
investors will receive a cash yield (cash flow as a 
percent of market cap) of 2% a year, the estimated 
breakeven revenue increases to $677.97 billion.
11
Breakeven Revenues and Waiting Period 
(and Cash Yield)(
12
Breakeven Revenues, Net Margins and 
Returns on Equity
13
Largest Market Cap Companies: Breakeven 
Revenues
14
The Drivers of Breakeven Revenues
¨Market Capitalization: Since we work back from market capitalization to 
estimate breakeven revenues, the larger the market capitalization, 
holding all else constant, the greater the breakeven revenues will be. 
¨Operating Profitability: There are two profitability metrics in the drivers, 
with net margins determining how much of the revenues a company can 
convert to profits and the return on equity driving the reinvestment 
needed to sustain growth. Higher profitability will allow a company to 
deliver a higher market capitalization, at any given level of revenues. 
¨Interest rates and equity risk premiums: The level of interest rates and 
equity risk premiums determine the cost of equity for all company, with 
higher values for the latter pushing up the costs of equity for riskier 
companies higher, relative to safer companies.
¨Operating and leverage risk: The riskiness in a business will push its cost 
of equity higher, and a higher debt load (relative to market cap) will have 
the same effect. A higher cost of equity will raise the breakeven revenues 
needed to deliver the same market capitalization.
15
The 3P Test on Breakeven Revenues
16
Applied to Nvidia and Tesla…
¨To apply these tests, consider Nvidia and Tesla. Nvidia needs about 
$590billion in revenues by 2030 to break even at its current 
market capitalization of $4.3 trillion, requiring a growth rate in 
revenues of about 26% for the next five years. 
¤While that is a reach, it is both possible and plausible, with continued 
growth in the AI chip market and a dominant market share for Nvidia 
providing the pathway. 
¤It is on the probable test that you run into headwinds, since competition is 
heating up, and that will put pressure on both growth and margins. 
¨The problem for Tesla is that if the net margin stays low (at 5.31%), 
the revenues needed to breakeven exceed $2.2 trillion, and even 
with robotics and automated driving thrown into the business mix, 
you are pushing the limits of possibility. A Tesla optimist, though, 
would argue that these new businesses, when they arrive, will 
bring much higher net margins, which, in turn, will push down 
breakeven revenues and bring it into plausible territory.
17
The Aggregated 3P Test: The Big Market 
Delusion
18
Applied to AI…
¨The AI storyline clearly fits the big market delusion. There is talk of 
a "huge" market for AI products and services, with little to show as 
tangible evidence of that market’s existence right now, and that 
potential has drawn massive investments in AI architecture from 
tech companies. 
¨Along the way, investors have also fallen under the spell of the big 
market and have pushed up the market capitalizations of almost 
every company in the space. 
¨Using the language of breakeven revenues, investors in each of 
these companies is attributing large breakeven revenues to their 
chosen companies, but the delusion comes from the reality that if 
you aggregated these breakeven revenues across companies, the 
market is not big enough to sustain all of them. In short, each 
company passed the possible and plausible test, but in the 
aggregate, you are chasing an impossible target.
19
LLMs: A Big MarketDelusion?
¨ OpenAI,while still unlisted, has been priced at $500 billion, an astonishing number, given 
that the company reported revenues of only $13 billion in the most recent twelve months. 
¨ Anthropic, the creator of Claude, has seen its pricing jump in the most recent funding round 
(from Microsoft and Nvidia in November 2025) to $350 billion, fifty times its revenues of $7 
billion in the last twelve months. 
¨ Elon Musk's ownersstake in xAI, Grok'soriginator, was estimated to be worth $230 billion in 
November 2025, again an immense multiple of its revenues of $3.2 billion (if you include 
combined revenues with X). 
¨ Expanding the list to the large tech companies, it is undeniable that some of Alphabet's 
massive rise in market capitalization in 2025 is because of its ownership of Gemini, and that 
Meta (with Llama) and Amazon (with Nova) have also seen bumps in market capitalization. 
Finally, while Deepseekis no longer making headlines, it is also in the space, competing for 
business. 
¨ In the aggregate, LLM ownership is being priced at $1.5 trillion or more, and the collective 
revenues, even generously defined are less than $100 billion. It is entirely plausible that a 
big market exists for LLMs, and that one or even two of the players in this space will be 
winners, but in the aggregate, the market is overreaching.
20
The Management Effect
¨The mechanics of the breakeven revenue process may make it seem like 
managers are bystanders in the process and that investing can be on 
autopilot, but they are not. In fact, when market capitalizations rise, and 
breakeven revenues run well ahead of current revenues, I would argue 
that management matters more than ever . 
¨In this context, I will reemphasize a concern that I raised at the height of 
Meta's metaverse investing fiasco, which is that investors at many tech 
companies, including most on the large cap list, have given up their 
corporate governance rights, often voluntarily (through the acceptance of 
shares with different voting rights), to founders and top management in 
these companies. 
¨When traditional corporate governance mechanisms break down, and top 
managers have unchecked power, there is an increased risk of overreach. 
That concern is multiplied in the LLM space, where Sam Altman (at 
OpenAI) and Elon Mush (at xAI) are more emperors than CEOs.
21
The Investing Bottomline
1. Highly priced ≠ Overpriced: If you are an investor who considers any highly priced company to be 
overvalued, I hope that this post leads you to reconsider . By reframing a pricing in terms of 
breakeven revenues, profitability and reinvestment, it allows you to consider whether a stock, 
even if priced at $4 trillion, may still be a good buy.
2. The 3P test: Once you compute the operating metrics you need to breakeven on an investment in a 
highly priced company, passing those metrics through the 3P test (Is it possible? Is it plausible? Is it 
probable?) allows you to examine each company on its merits and potential, rather than use a 
broad brush or a rule of thumb (based on PE ratios or revenue multiples).
3. Room to disagree:I have never understood why, if you believe strongly that a stock is over or 
under priced, you need to evangelize that belief or contest people with alternate views. I think that 
the pathway that you would need (in terms of revenue growth and profitability) to justify Nvidia's 
and OpenAI'scurrent pricing is improbable, but that is just my view, and it is entirely possible that 
you have an alternate perspective, leading to the conclusion that they are undervalued.
4. Reality checks: No matter what your view, optimistic or pessimistic, you have tobe open to 
changing your mind, as you are faced with data. Thus, if you have priced a company to deliver 20% 
growth in revenues over the next five years (to break even) and actual revenues growth comes in 
at 10%, you have tobe willing to revisit your story, admit that you were wrong, and adapt.
