Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Inflation2022.pdf

IN SEARCH OF A STEADY STATE: 
INFLATION, INTEREST RATES AND 
VALUE
The (inflation) genie escapes the bottle!
2
SearchingforBalance
qThe nature of markets is that they are never quite settled, as 
investors recalibrate expectations constantly and reset prices. 
qIn most time periods, those recalibrations and resets tend to be small 
and in both directions,resulting in the ups and downs that pass for 
normal volatility. 
qWEare not in one of those time periods, as markets approach bipolar 
territory, with big moves up and down. 
qThe good news is that the culprit behind the volatility, 
inflation, is easy to identify, but the bad news is that inflation 
remains the most unpredictable of all macroeconomic factors 
to factor into stock prices and value. 
qIn this session, I will look at where we stand on inflation 
expectations, and the different paths we can be end up on, 
ranging from potentially catastrophic to mostly benign.
3
Inflation:Backin the news?
4
InflationHistory
¨While I report multiple measures of inflation, from 
the consumer price index (adjusted and unadjusted) 
to the producer price index to the price deflator 
used in the GDP , they all tell the same story. 
¤We have had a long stretch of low and stable inflation, and 
that is especially true since the 2008 crisis. 
¤In fact, the average inflation rate in the 2011-20 decade 
was the lowest of the seven decades that I cover in this 
chart. 
¤Just as important, though, is the fact that variation in 
inflation, from year to year, was lower in 2011-2020 in 
every other decade, other than 1991-2000.
5
Expectedand Unexpected Inflation
6
TheInflationDecade:1971-1980
¨Investors who are old enough to remember the 1970s 
point to it as a decade of high inflation, but that is only 
with the benefit of hindsight. 
¤At the start of that decade, investors had no reason to believe 
that they were heading into a decade of higher inflation, and 
initial signs of price increases were attributed to temporary 
factors (with OPEC being a convenient target). 
¤In fact, expected inflation lagged actual inflation through much 
of the decade, and the damage done to financial asset returns 
that decade came as much from actual inflation being higher 
than expected inflation, period after period, as from higher 
inflation.
7
The Inflation Surprise in 2021
¨It is precisely because we have been spoiled by a decade 
of low and stable inflation that the inflationnumbers in 
2021 and 2022 have comes as such a surprise to 
economists,investors and even the Fed. 
¨Early on, theinflation surge was explained away by the 
reopening of theeconomy, after the COVIDshutdown, 
and then by stressed supply chains, and expected 
inflation remained low. 
¨However, as inflation has remained stubbornly high, and 
neither COVID nor supplychains provide a sufficient 
rationale, market expectations of inflation have started 
to creep up.
8
Expected Inflation
9
Explaining the divergence…
¨Short term versus Long term: The consumer survey extracts an 
expectation of inflation in the near term, whereas the treasury markets 
are providing a longer termperspective, since I am using ten-year rates to 
derive the market-implied inflation.
¨Consumers are over adjusting: The big inflation surges have happened in 
gasoline, food and housing, all items that consumers come into contact 
withon a continuous basis, and it is possible that they are over reaction 
and adjusting expected inflation up too much, as a consequence.
¨Markets are under adjusting: Alternatively, it is possible that it is 
consumers who are being realisticand it is that the market which is under 
adjusting to higher inflation, partly because many investors have operated 
only in a low and steady inflation environment and partly because many 
of these investors have a belief that the Fed has super powersand 
"determines" what interest rates and inflation will be in the future.
10
Economic Consequences: Interest Rates
11
DefaultSpreads…
12
And on expected returns on stocks…
13
With worries abouteconomicgrowth…
¨ Almost every economic forecasting service has increased their 
assessed probabilities for a recession, with variations on how deep 
and long a recession has tobe to break inflation's back. 
¨In a note published in mid-April, Larry Summers and Alex Domash
go as far as to put the likelihood of a recession at 100%, based 
upon ajoint indicator, i.e.,that a combination of inflation> 5% 
andunemployment<4% has always led to a recession within 12 to 
24 months, using quarterly data from the 1950s to today. 
¨While I remain a skeptic about historic rules of thumb (downward 
sloping yield curve, for example) to make categorical statements 
about future economic growth, I think that we can state 
categorically that there is a greater chance of an economic 
slowdown now than just a few months ago.
14
Investment Consequences
¨As the storm clouds of higher inflation and interest 
rates, inconjunction with slower or even negative 
economic growth, gather, it should come as 
nosurprise that equity markets are struggling to find 
their footing. 
¨At the close of trading on May 5, 2022, the S&P 500 
stood at 4147, down 13.3% from the start ofthe 
year value, accompanied by increased volatility. 
¨Youarehearingfrom”experts” offering divergent 
advice from sell and flee to buy into weakness.
15
Determinants of Value
¨Steady StateInterest Rate: There are three possibilities for the future. 
¤Bulkofthemoveisbehindus. This is steady state.
¤A Seventies rerun, with expectations lagging inflation
¤Inflationistransient and returns to last decade levels
¨Equity Risk Premium Path: The equity risk premium of 5.24%, estimated 
at the start of May 2022, is at the high end of historical equity risk 
premiums.Thatratecould
¤Continue torisewithhighandvolatile inflation
¤Stay steady at current levels
¤Drop,asinflationfearspass
¨Earnings Estimates: The strength of the economy has been a big 
contributor to boosting actual and expected earnings on companies in the 
last two years, and these higher earnings have translated into more cash 
returned in dividends and buybacks. Ifrecessionfearsplay out, those 
earnings may be under stress.
16
S&P Valuation: Status Quo
17
Value Dynamics
18
Other investment classes…
¨ One of thecosts that come with thelast scenario is that inflation eats away at trust in not 
justcurrencies, but in all financial assets, and that investors will turn away from stocks and bonds.
¨ In the 1970s, the asset classes that benefited the most from this flight were gold and real estate, 
and the question is which asset classes will best play this role now, if inflation is here to stay. 
¤ I do think that securitizing real estate has made it behave more like financialassets and removed some of 
itspower to hedgeagainst inflation, but there may be segments (such as rentalproperties, where rent can 
be raised to match inflation) that retain their inflation fightingmagic. 
¤ Gold's history as acollectible with standing will continue, but the truth is that it is not big enough as an asset 
class for us to all hold it. 
¨ That, of course, brings us to cryptos, NFTs and other, more recent, entrants into the investment 
choice list. In theory, you could make the argument that these newinvestment choices will operate 
like gold, butyou have two serious barriers to overcome. 
¤ The firstis that they have not been along for long, and history is full of collectibles, from Beanie Babies to 
Pokemoncards, that people paid high prices for, but failed to hold their value. 
¤ The second is that in the limited history that we have for cryptos and NFTs, they have behaved less like 
collectibles (holding orincreasing in value, as stocksand bonds collapse) and more like very risk stock. 
¤ In fact, higher and sustainedinflation may be the ultimate test of whether there is any substance to the 
bitcoin as millennial gold story, and the results may make or break those holding cryptos for the financial 
apocalypse that they see coming
19
In Conclusion…
¨The inflation genie is out of the bottle, and if history is any guide, getting 
it back in is going to take more time and create more pain than we realize. 
¤It is the lesson that the US learned in the 1970s, and that other countries have 
learned or chosen to not learn from their own encounters with inflation. 
¤It is the reason that when inflation made itself visible in the early part of 2021, I 
argued that the Fed should take it seriously, and respond quickly, even if there 
existed the possibility that it was transient. 
¨Needless to say, theFed and the administration chose a different path, 
one that can be described as whistling in the graveyard, not just ignoring 
the danger with happy talk, but also actively taking decisions that only 
exacerbated the danger. 
¨Needless to say, theyfind themselves between a rock (more inflation) and 
a hard place (a recession), and while you may be tempted to say"I told 
you so", the truth is that we will all feel the pain.
