Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2022.pdf

DATA UPDATE 4 FOR 2022: RISK 
AND HURDLE RATES!
Risk=Danger+Opportunity
2
A reminder on risk, in case you needed it…
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨In the first few weeks of 2022, we have had repeated 
reminders from the market that risk never goes away for 
good, even in the most uplifting markets, and that when 
it returns, investors still seem to be surprised that it is 
still there. 
¨Investors all talk about risk, but there seems to be little 
consensus on what it is, how it should be measured and 
how it plays out in the short and long term. 
¨In this post, I will start with a working definition of risk 
that we can get some degree of agreement about, and 
then look at measures of risk, both at the company and 
country level,andconverting those measures into 
“hurdle rates” .
3
An Ages-old Definition of Risk
Aswath Damodaran
3
¨In the four decades that I have been teaching finance, I have 
always introduced my discussion of risk with a Chinese 
symbols for crisis, as a combination of danger plus 
opportunity:
¨Over the four decades, though, I have been corrected dozens 
of times on how the symbols should be written, with each 
correction being challenged by a new reader. That said, 
though, thinking about risk as a combination of danger and 
opportunity is both healthy and all encompassing
4
Implications for risk taking…
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨ Opportunity, without danger, is a delusion: If you seek out high returns (great opportunities), you have tobe 
willing to live with risk (great danger). 
¨ Danger, without opportunity, is foolhardy: In investing, taking on risk without an expectation of a reward is a road 
to disaster . If you are investing in a risky project or investment, your expected return should be higher to reflect 
that risk, even though fate may deliver actual returns that are worse than expected. 
¨ It is uncertainty aboutoutcomes, not expected outcomes,that comprise risk: In investing, we often make the 
mistake of assuming that risk comes from bad outcomes, when it is uncertainty about this expectation that drives 
risk. 
¤ It is not high inflation that is risk, butuncertainty about that inflation.
¤ If a firm is badly managed, and you expect it to remain badly managed, you can and should build in that expectation into your 
forecasts of that company's earnings and value. Thus, a badly managed firm, where you expect the management to continue to 
remain in that state, will be less risky than a well managed firm, where there is much more uncertainty about management 
turnover and actions.
¨ Risk is in the future, not the past: Risk is always about the future, since the past has already revealed its secrets. 
That said, many of our perspectives about and measures of risk come from looking backwards, using the 
variability and outcomes of past data as an indicator of risk in the future. 
¨ Upside versus Downside Risk: If risk comes from actual outcomes being different from expectations, it is worth 
noting that those outcomes can come in better than expected (upside) or worse than expected. Since the entire 
basis of investing in risky assets is to benefit from the upside, it is downside risk that worries us, and in keeping 
with this perspective, there have tobeen attempts to derive risk measures that focus only on or more on 
downside risk.
5
Finance’s Risk Perspective
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨As someone who works in, and teaches finance, I am 
grateful for what the discipline has done to advance 
the study of risk, but I would be remiss if I did not 
point out that it has come with some not-so-
desirable side effects. 
¤One is the tunnel vision that comes from thinking of risk 
purely in terms of statistical measures, with standard 
deviation and variance leading the way. 
¤The other is the dangerous notion that measuring risk is 
the same as managing that risk and, in some cases, the 
even more insane view that it removes that risk.
6
Risk: In many forms…
7
And across the life cycle…
8
From risktohurdlerates, for equity 
investors…
¨To get from these general risk categories into explicit risk measures and 
required returns, Iadopt a simplestructure (perhaps even simplistic), 
where I accept that I am a price taker when it comes to some risks 
(interest rates and risk premiums) and focus on the components of 
riskthat companies can change through their choices on business, 
geography and debt load:
9
1. Measuring Relative Risk 
¨Not all stocks are equally risky, and some stocks are more 
riskythan others, and the objective of a relative risk measure 
is to capture that relative risk. 
¨The disagreements rise in how to measure this relative risk, 
and risk and return models in finance have tried, with varying 
degrees of success, to come up withthis measure. 
¨The most widely model for risk, in practice, is the capital asset 
pricing model, and beta is the relative risk measure. 
¨Embedded in its usage is the assumption that the marginal 
investors in a stock, i.e., those large investors who set prices 
with their trading, are diversified, and that you can estimate 
the "non-diversifiable" risk in a stock, by regressing returns 
on a stock against a market index.
10
BetterBetas?
11
Country Equity Risk Premiums…
12
The ERP World…
13
Debt, the other ingredient of capital
¨Thecost of debt for a company is the rate at which it 
can borrow money, long term, and today, and not 
the cost of the debt that is already on its books.
¨The build up to a cost of debt is simple:
14
FundingMixandCost of Capital
15
Cost of Capital in January 2022
16
Hurdle Rate Delusions
¨The two biggest forces driving corporate financial and investor decision 
making are me-too-ism and inertia. 
¨Both individual investors and companies seem to operate under the 
delusion that hurdle rates should reflect what they want to make on 
investments, rather than what they need to make. 
¤Individual investors who demand unrealistically high returns in a market that is 
priced to deliver 6-7% returns on stocks will end up holding cash, and many of 
them have been doing so for the bulk of the last decade. 
¤Companies that institute hurdle rates that are too high will be unable to find 
investments that can deliver higher returns, andwill lose out to competitors 
who have more realistic hurdle rates. 
¨In short, companies and investors, demanding double digit returns, have 
todecide whether they want to remain delusional and be shut out of 
investing, or recalibrate their expectations to reflect the world we live in.
