Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/PelotonIPO.pdf

INSIGHTS ON VC PRICING: 
LESSONS FROM UBER, WEWORK
AND PELOTON
Aswath Damodaran
http://www.damodaran.com
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
Started a Peloton Valuation, but 
distraction struck…
¨ Déjà vu? The Peloton prospectus, with the descriptions of its 
business, its measure of total market size and its success at scaling 
up revenues accompanied by large losses, I was reminded of 
prospectuses from Lyft, Uber, Slack, Pinterest and, most recently, 
WeWorks, not only shared many of the same characteristics but 
also used much of the same language. 
¨ Learned Behavior: It is possible that they all used a ProspectusApp,
which wrote the prospectus for them, with all the necessary pieces 
and buzzwords, but more likely,these companies are emphasizing 
those features that allowed them to get to where they are today.
¨ Insight into whatVC prize and price most: Examining the features 
they emphasize should give us insight into how venture capitalists 
price companies, and the dangers of basing what you pay on the 
most recent VC pricing. 
Aswath Damodaran
2
3
1a. Grandiosity in Business Description
¨ It is natural that companies, especially early in their lives, puff up 
their business descriptions and inflate their potential markets, but 
the companies that have gone public this year seem to have taken 
it to an art form. 
¤ Lyft, which went public before Uber, described themselves as a 
transportation company, a little over -the-top for a car service company, 
but Uber topped this easily, with their identification as a personal mobility 
company. 
¤ WeWork, in its prospectus, steers clear of ever describing itself business as 
real estate, framing itself instead as a community company , whatever that 
means. 
¤ Peloton, in perhaps the widest stretch of all, calls itself a technology, 
media, software, product, experience, fitness, design, retail, apparel and 
logistics company, and names itself Peloton Interactive for emphasis. 
¨ All of them also claim to be tech companies.
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Ib. Total Addressable (Accessible) Markets 
(TAM)
"IT" IS POSSIBLE
This	could	happen,	but	
you	are	not	sure	what	
“this”	is,	when	it	will	
happen	and	what	it	will	
look	like	when	it	does.
"IT" IS PLAUSIBLE
This	is	something	that	
you	can	make	a	reasoned	
argument	could	happen,	
though	you	have	little	
tangible	evidence	for	it	
happening	(yet).
IT IS PROBABLE
This	is	something	that	you	
expect	to	happen,	with	
some	basis	or	evidence	for	
that	expectation.	There	
can	be	substantial	
uncertainty	in	your	
expectations.
TAM Overreach
Count	every	conceiveable	customer ,	
now	or	in	the	future,	as	part	of	potential	
market.
Expanded TAM
Start	with	existing	market	reach,	but	
expand	to	include	new	customers	drawn	
in	both	product/service	changes	and	
market	trends.
Constrained TAM
Given	product/service	
characteristics,	count	only	customers	
that	you	can	reach	today.
Cannot assess Low Increasing
Total Addressable or Accessible Markets (TAM): The 3P Test
5
Uber’s TAM
6
WeWork’sTAM
Peloton’s TAM
8
2. Scaling Success ($ and Units)
Aswath Damodaran
8
9
A Platform Argument (but for what?)
¨ A Platform? I understand the allure of user numbers, since the 
platform that they inhabit can be used to generate more revenues. 
That is implicitly the message that all these companies are sending
¨ User value: I did estimate a lifetime value of an Uber rider at close 
to $500 and I could use the model (described in this paper) to 
derive values for a WeWork member or a Peloton subscriber. 
¨ The success stories: After all, the most successful user-based 
companies, such as Facebook and Amazon Prime, have shown how 
having a large user base can provide a foundation for new products 
and profits. 
¨ And the failures: However, there are companies that focus just on 
adding users, using badly constructed business models and pricing 
products/services much too cheaply, hoping to raise prices once 
the users are acquired. 
Aswath Damodaran
9
10
3. Blurry Business Models and
Questionable Earnings Adjustments
Aswath Damodaran
10
¨ Most of the companies that have gone public this 
year have entered the public markets with large 
losses, even after you correct for what they spend to 
acquire new users or subscribers. 
¨ For some investors, this, by itself, is sufficient to turn 
away from these companies
¨ Since these are young companies, pursuing 
ambitious growth targets, neither the negative 
earnings, nor the negative cash flows, is enough to 
scare me away.
11
3a. Pathways to Profitability?
¨ As money losing companies, I had hoped that Uber, WeWorkand 
Peloton would all spend more time talking, in their investor 
pitches, talking about their existing business models, current 
weaknesses in these models and how they planned to reduce these 
vulnerabilities. 
¤ With Uber and Lyft, the question of how the companies planned to deal 
with the transition of drivers from independent contractors to employees 
should have been dealt with front and center (in their prospectuses), 
rather than be viewed as a surprise that no one saw coming. 
¤ With WeWork, their vulnerability, stemming from a duration 
mismatch, begged for a response, and plan, from the company in its 
prospectus, but none was provided. 
¤ Peloton may have done the best job, of the there companies, of 
positioning themselves on this front, with an (implicit) argument that as 
subscriptions rise, with higher contribution margins, profits would show 
up and increase.
Aswath Damodaran
11
12
3b. Adjusted EBITDA
Aswath Damodaran
12
¨ General practice: As has become standard practice 
across many publicly traded companies, these IPOs do 
the adjusted EBITDA dance, adding back stock-based 
compensation and a variety of other expenses. 
¨ Stock based compensation: I have made my case against 
adding back stock-based compensation here and here, 
but I would state a more general proposition that adding 
back any expense that will persist as part of regular 
operations is bad practice. 
¨ Community EBITDA: That is why WeWork's attempt to 
add back most of its operating expenses, arguing that 
they were community related, to get to community 
EBITDA did not pass the smell test.
13
4. Founder Worship
¨ Some time in the last two decades, newly public 
companies and many of their institutional investors 
seem to have lost faith in the quid quo pro that has 
characterized public companies over their history, where 
in return for providing capital, public market investors 
are at least given the semblance of a say in how the 
company is run, voting at annual meetings for board 
directors and substantive changes to the corporate 
charter . 
¨ The most charitable characterization of the corporate 
governance arrangement at most newly minted public 
companies is that they are benevolent dictatorships, 
with a founder/CEO at the helm, controlling its destiny.
Aswath Damodaran
13
14
Manifestations of Corporate Dictatorship
Aswath Damodaran
14
¨ Shares with different voting classes: With the exception of Uber, every 
high profile IPO that has hit the market has had multiple classes of shares, 
with the low-voting right shares being the ones offered to the market in 
the public offering and the high voting right shares held by insiders and 
the founder/CEO. 
¨ Captive boards of directors: I am sure that the directors on the boards of 
newly public companies are there to represent the interests of investors 
in the company and and that many are well qualified, but they seem to do 
the bidding of the founder/CEO. 
¨ Complex ownership and corporate structures: When private companies 
go public, there is a transition period where shares of one class are being 
converted to another, some options have forced exercises and there are 
restricted share offerings that ripen, all of which make it difficult to 
estimate value per share. It does not help when the company going public 
takes this confusion and adds to it, as WeWorkdid, with additional layers 
of complex organizational structure.
15
Learned Behavior?
Aswath Damodaran
15
¨ The fact that almost every company that went public this 
year framed its total market as implausibly big, 
emphasized how quickly it has scaled itself up, both in 
terms of revenues and users/subscribers, glossed over 
the flaws and weaknesses in its business model, and had 
shares with different voting rights suggests to me that 
this is behavior that was learned, because venture 
capitalists encouraged and rewarded it. 
¨ Bluntly put, the pricing offered by venture capitalists for 
companies must value scaling magnitude over sound 
business models, unrealistic (but huge) total addressable 
markets over plausible ones, with nary a thought given 
to corporate governance.
16
Pricing Pitch
¨ VC Pricing as Base: In almost every IPO this year, the basis for 
at least the initial estimate of what the company would get 
from the market was the pricing at the most recent VC round, 
about $66 billion for Uber, $47 billion for WeWorks on the 
Softbank investment and about $4.2 billion at Peloton. 
¨ Follow the VCs? The strongest sales pitch that the company 
and its bankers seem to be making is that venture capitalists 
are smart people who know a great deal about the company, 
and that you should be willing to base your pricing on theirs. 
¨ But should you? This is not very persuasive, because VCs 
price companies, they don't value them, and the pricing 
ladder, while it can lead price up, up and away, can also bring 
price down, when the momentum shifts.
17
The Peloton Business Model
¨ The Equipment: The Peloton product offerings started 
with an upscale exercise bike, but has since expanded to 
include an even more expensive treadmill; the bike 
currently sells for about $2,250 and the treadmill for 
more than $4,000. 
¨ The Innovations: 
¤ Focusing on the upper end of the market with a very limited 
product 
¤ Monthly subscription to those who bought, where you can take 
online classes and access other fitness-related services, with a 
monthly subscription fee of $40/month. 
¤ Peloton Digital: In 2018, Peloton expanded its subscription 
service to non-Peloton fitness product owners, charging about 
$20 a month, with a membership count of 100,000 in 2018.
18
The Subscription Business Grows…
19
My Peloton Story
¨ A Cult? Peloton owners/subscribers rave about the online classes and 
how they keep them motivated to exercise, and while I take their praise 
with a grain of salt, it is quite clear that the company's online presence is 
not only polished but looks amazing on the high resolution TV screens 
that are built into their bikes and treadmills. 
¨ My growth story: The total accessible market will grow as Peloton and 
other new entrants into the subscription model draw in new customers, 
and that Peloton's allure will last. In my base case valuation, I see 
Peloton's subscription model as their ticket for future growth, pushing 
revenues by year 10 for the company to just above $10 billion, a lofty 
goal, given that the largest US fitness companies (gyms and equipment 
makers) have revenues of $2-$3 billion.
¨ Subscription shift side effects:  I also believe that the shift towards 
subscriptions will continue, allowing for higher margins and lower capital 
investment than at the typical fitness company.
‹#›Aswath Damodaran20
21
Lots of uncertainty?
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨ There is no denying that there is uncertainty in the 
future. While some argue that this is reason enough to 
either not invest in the company, or not do a discounted 
cash flow valuation, I disagree. 
¤ At the right price, you should be willing to expose yourself to 
uncertainty, and while I would not buy Peloton at $26/share, I 
certainly would be interested at a price lower than $19.35. 
¤ The notion that the value of a business is a function of its 
capacity to generate cash flows is not repealed, just because you 
have a young, high growth company. If your critique is that my 
assumptions could be very wrong, I completely agree, but I can 
still estimate value, facing up to that uncertainty.
22
Peloton Simulation
23
A Requiem…
¨ The flood of companies going public, and their diverse 
businesses, has made for interesting valuations, but 
there are also more general lessons to be learned, even 
for those not interested in investing in these companies. 
¤ Our experiences with these IPOs makes clear it is the pricing 
game that dominates how numbers get attached to companies, 
and that is especially true for IPOs, not just on the offering day, 
but in the VC rounds leading up to the offering. 
¤ To the extent that the pricing game becomes centered on 
intermediate metrics, say revenue growth or on users or 
subscribers, it can lead companies astray, as they strive to 
deliver on those metrics, often at the expense of creating viable 
business models, and the pricing players (VCs and public 
investors) can get blindsided when the game changes.
