Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/InstacartIPO.pdf

THE (INSTA) CART BEFORE THE 
(GROCERY) HORSE: A COVID FAVORITE’S 
REALITY CHECK!
The Pandemic gives… And it takes away!
Aswath Damodaran
2
A Long-awaited IPO
¨After years of lead in, Instacart has finally filed for a public offering 
of it’s shares, with estimates that it will be aspiring to raise about 
$600 million from markets, at a pricing of about $9-$10 billion for 
its equity. 
¨Coming in the same week that ARM is also filing to go public, but 
with an estimated pricing of $55-$60 billion, it is an indication of 
how much the ground has shifted under Instacart since the heady 
days of 2020, when Instacart was viewed by some Americans as the 
only thing that stood between them and starvation. 
¨At that time, there were some who were suggesting that the 
company could go public at $30-$40 billion, but reality has caught 
up with both the company and investors, and this IPO represents 
vastly downgraded expectations for the company’s future.
3
The Instacart Business Model
4
The Business, in steps
¨In the first, I will look at the grocery business, both in terms of 
growth and profitability of grocery stores, since even though 
Instacart is anintermediary in the business, it will be affected by 
grocery business fundamentals. 
¨In the second, I will examine the forces that are pushing consumers 
to online grocery shopping, and why I believe that the ceiling for 
that growth is much lower than it is than in other areas of retailing. 
¨In the third, I will focus on how the competition to Instacart, within 
the online grocery retail space, is shaping up, and the 
consequences for its market share. 
¨In the final, I will examine the operating costs faced by Instacart, 
especially in the content of how the fee pie will be shared by the 
company with its shoppers and drivers.
5
1a. The Grocery Business –Slow Growth
6
1b. And low profit margins…
7
1c. And concentrated market share…
8
2. Online Grocery Shopping
Aswath Damodaran
¨Customers tend to favor a specific grocery store (or at most, a 
couple of stores) for most of their grocery needs. 
¤One reason for that is familiarity with store layout, since knowing where to 
find the items that you are looking for can make the difference between a 
10-minute trip to the store and a 30-minute trip. 
¤Another is location, with customers tending to shop at neighborhood 
stores, for much of their needs, since groceries do not do well with long 
commutes back home. 
¨Second, for non-processed food, meats and produce, being able to 
see and touch items before you buy them is part of the shopping 
experience, with pictures of the same product operating as poor 
substitutes. 
¨For these reasons, grocery retail remained almost immune from 
the disruption wrought on the rest of brick-and-mortar retail, at 
least in the United States.
9
The COVID Effect
10
And the Easing of that Effect
Aswath Damodaran
11
3. The Competition
12
4. Operating Economics
¨ Byfar,thebiggestcostthatthecompanyfacesinhiringandpayingthousands
ofshoppersanddriverstooperateitssystem.Likeride-sharingcompanies,
thequestionofhowInstacartcategorizestheseworkers,andtheresulting
costs,willdeterminewhatitwillbeabletogenerateasoperatingprofits:
1. PayversusCommission:Instacarthastraditionallypaiditsshoppersbaseduponthebatchesof
workdone(withabatchincludingshopping,packingandloadingacustomerorder)and
paymentsfordeliveriesmade,withtipsfromcustomersaccruingasadditionalincome.In
effect,thatmakesalmostalloftheseexpensesintovariablecosts,risingandfallingwith
revenues,reducingrisktothecompanybutalsoeconomiesofscale,asitgetsbigger.
2. IndependentcontractorversusEmployee:Instacarthasarguedthattheshoppersanddrivers
whoworkforitareindependentcontractors,ratherthanemployees.Thatdistinctionmatters
becauseanemployeecategorizationwillopenupInstacartnotonlytoadditionalcosts(social
security,healthcareetc.)butalsotolegalliability,foremployeeactions.In2023,Instacartpaid
$46.5million,tosettleaCalifornialawsuitonthiscount.
¨ As a company built around a technology platform, Instacart also has 
significant spending on R&D, as well as on customer support services.
13
The Instacart IPO: Prospectus Pet Peeves
Aswath Damodaran
1. Disclosure Diarrhea: Prospectuses have become more and more bulky over time, 
with Airbnb's 2020 listing including a prospectus that was 350 pages long. With 
appendices, Instacart's prospectus stretches on to 416 pages.
2. “T ech” and AI: In common with many other companies that have gone public in 
the last decade, Instacart is quick to label itself a technology company, when the 
truth is that it is a grocery delivery company that uses technology to smooth the 
ride. In keeping with the times, the prospectus mentions AI multiple times, I 
counted 32 mentions of AI in the prospectus, and I remain skeptical that AI will (or 
should) alter grocery shopping in fundamental ways.
3. Adjusted EBITDA: Needless to say, Instacart plows right ahead and not only adds 
back stock-based compensation but makes a host of other adjustments (see page 
126 of prospectus). Since Instacart makes money without these adjustments, they 
only draw attention away from that good news.
4. Share count shenanigans: On page 19 of the prospectus, Instacart headlines that 
its share count will be 279.33 million shares, but counting excluded shares 
(including RSUS) together, you get an ignored share count of 43.62 million, which 
brings the total share count to 322.94 million shares.
14
Instacart: Financial History
15
a. Take Rate
16
b. Operating Expenses
17
c. Customer Acquisition and Reinvestment
18
d. Unit Economics –Order Size
Aswath Damodaran
19
And by cohort…
Aswath Damodaran
20
My InstacartValuationStory…
Aswath Damodaran
1. Growth:Toestimatetransactionrevenues,Iwillassumethatgrosstransaction
valueontheplatformwilltrackgrowthinonlinegroceryretailing,whichseemsto
havesettledintoacompoundedannualgrowthrateofabout12%,forthenext
fiveyears.IwillassumethatInstacartwillmaintainitsmarketshareoftheonline
grocerymarket,inthefaceofcompetition,butonlybycuttingitsfeesand
acceptingatakerateof6%,byyear5,downfrom7.5%inthetrailing12
months.Advertisingrevenues,though,areassumedtokeeptrackwithgross
transactionsontheplatform.
2. Profitability:Drawingonthecompany'shistoryofdeliveringeconomiesofscale
oncostofgoodssoldandoperationssupport,Iwillassumethatthecompanywill
beabletoimproveitsoperatingmarginsovertimeto25%.Thetensionsbetween
Instacartanditsshoppers,aswellaspushbackfromgrocerystores,willkeepalid
onthesemarginsandpreventfurtherimprovement,andIexpectInstacart's
expensesforitsshopperstoincreaseovertime,asitisforcedtotreatthemas
employees(ratherthanindependentcontractors).
3. Reinvestment:Asusergrowthlevelsoff,Iexpectthecompanytoreverttoits
capital-lightorigins,andspendfarlessonacquiringcustomers,aswellasonR&D.
Thisallowsmetoassumethatthecompanywillbeabletodeliver$3.13in
revenues,foreverydollarinvested,roughlymatchingtheglobalindustryaverage.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
23
The Offering: A Pricing Game
¨IPOsarepriced,notvalued,notwithstandingthelipservicethateveryone
involvedintheprocess,includingVCs,foundersandbankers,paysto
valuation.
¨Thedifferencebetweenvaluingandpricingisthatwhiletheformer
requiresthatyougrapplewithbusinessquestionsongrowth,profitability
andreinvestment,thelatterisbasedonhowmuchinvestorsarepaying
forpeergroupcompanies,asubjectivejudgment,butonemade
nevertheless.Inkeepingwiththistheme,Icomparedtheproposed
pricingforInstacartagainstthepricingofitspeergroup.
Aswath Damodaran
24
An Offering Preview
¨A Risk Averse Offering: The fact that Instacart is going public is perhaps a 
sign that the market is thawing, but this IPO has been swaddled in safety 
blankets to prevent a market backlash. In addition to pricing the company 
conservatively (as you can see from the value estimate in the last section), 
Instacart lined up high-profile cornerstone investors includingNorges
Bank, TCV, Sequoia, D1 and Valiant to buy up to 60% of the offering, 
providing a floor on the price.
¨Mood and Momentum: The ARM IPO offering on September 14, which 
saw the company's stock price, which was offered at $51, open for trading 
at $56.10 and closed the day at $63.59.
¤ If that mood spills over into this week,I expect Instacart's IPO to pop on its 
opening day as well, and it is no surprise that the offer price was reset to $30 in the 
aftermath. 
¤There is of course the possibility that Instacart gets a chilly reception for its 
offering, either because the market mood has already turned (ARM is back down to 
$56 per share) or because Instacart does not have the AI hook that might have 
induced investors to jump on its bandwagon.
25
The VC Game
Aswath Damodaran
26
Bottom Line: There is no smart money
Aswath Damodaran
¨The notion that there is smart money, i.e., that there is an investor 
group that is somehow wiser, more informed and less likely to act 
emotionally than the rest of us, and that it earns higher returns 
than the rest of us, is deeply held. 
¨In my view, it is a mirage, since every group that is anointed as 
smart money ultimately ends up looking average (in terms of 
behavior and returns), when all is said and done. 
¨It happened to mutual fund managers decades ago, and it has 
happened to hedge funds and private equity over the last two 
decades. 
¨For those who are holding on to the beliefthat venture capitalists 
are the last bastion of smart money, it is time to let go. While there 
are a few exceptions, venture capitalists for the most part are 
traders on steroids, riding the momentum train, and being ridden 
over by it, when it turns.
