Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session5.pdf

SESSION 5: CLEANING UP 
ACCOUNTING
Accounting for Finance
2
The Accountant’s Role
qAccountants like order and consistency, as can be seen in 
their propensity to write rules. 
qThat said, much of accounting as practiced today was 
developed in detail in the 20thcentury for the manufacturing 
firms that dominated that century.
qAs the center of economic gravity has shifted from 
manufacturing to technology & service companies, and 
corporate financial behavior has changed over time, 
accountants have struggled with four key issues:
qTaxes, and the actions that companies take to avoid or delay paying 
them.
qManagerial compensation in the form of equity (stock)
qCommitments that are contractual but are not debt
qInvestments for long term benefits that are not in physical assets
3
1. Taxes: Dueling Tax Rates
1. Marginal tax rate: The marginal tax rate is the tax rate in the 
statutory tax codes. Thus, in 2020, a US company should be 
paying 21% of its taxable income in the US as federal taxes. 
Since US companies now operate on a regional tax model, 
the marginal tax rate for multinationals will reflect where 
they make (or report to make) their taxable income.
2. Effective Tax Rate: The effective tax rate for a company 
reflects the taxes and taxable income it reports in its income 
statement, which is based on accrual accounting: 
¤ Effective tax rate = Taxes/ Taxable Income
3. Cash Tax Rate: The cash tax rate for a company reflects the 
taxes it actually pays on its taxable income.
4
Deferred Tax Assets & Liabilities
qFormostcompanies,theeffectivetaxratewillbelowerthan
themarginaltaxrate,reflecting:
qOperationsincountrieswithlowertaxrates
q(Legal)Taxdeferralandavoidancestrategies
qWhentherearedifferencesbetweenwhatisexpensedand
whatisreportedastaxableincomebetweenthereporting
andtaxbooks,theresultingdifferenceintaxesisreportedas
adeferredtaxliability(asset)ifthecompanypaysless(more)
intaxesonitstaxbooksthanitreportsinitsfinancial
statements.
qThelogicfordoingsoissimple.Theitemsthatgiverisetoless
(more)taxespaidinthecurrentperiodwillreverseandresult
inmore(less)taxespaidinfutureperiods.
5
Net Operating Losses & Carryforwards
¨When a US company loses money, it is allowed to carry 
those losses forward and use them to reduce taxes paid 
in future years. 
¤Until the Tax Reform Act of 2017, the NOL could be carried back 
two years and used to reduce taxes paid in prior years (as a tax 
credit) and forward 20 years.
¤The Tax Reform Act of 2017 removed the carry back provision 
and allows losses to be carried forward indefinitely.
¨When a company has losses that are over multiple years, 
these losses are cumulated over time as a Net Operating 
Loss (NOL) and should be disclosed in a company’s 
financials.
6
2. Stock Based Compensation is an 
Operating Expense… 
qCompanies have used stock-based compensation to 
reward employees for decades for two reasons:
qTo align the interests of employees & managers with those of 
the shareholders
qTo make up for the absence of cash (to provide compensation 
packages that are competitive)
qStock-based compensation primarily takes two forms:
qOptions to buy the company’s stock (or invest in its equity) at a 
fixed price for a specified period.
qShares in the company, sometimes with restrictions on trading 
on those shares (restricted shares)
7
What type of expense is it?
¨No matter what the motive for providing stock-based 
compensation (to align interests or to make up for lack of cash), 
it is clearly a compensation expense.
¤If a grant is large and occasional, and primarily driven by the desire to align 
interests, there is an argument that it should be spread out over time.
¤If a company uses stock-based compensation consistently, and more to 
make up for its cash poor status than to align interests, it is an annual 
expense.
¨To expense stock-based compensation, you have to value of the 
options or stock given to employees, at the time they are 
granted.
¤Until 2004, companies were allowed leeway to estimate the value of 
option grants based upon exercise value at the time of the grant.
¤After 2004, FAS 123 requires companies to value options based upon their 
time premium (using option pricing models) and show that expense in the 
year the options are granted.
8
Is it a cash flow?
qNow that options and restricted stock are treated 
(correctly) as compensation, and expensed in the years 
they are granted, the debate has shifted to the question 
of whether they are non-cash expenses (like 
depreciation), deserving of being added back to get to 
cash flows.
qMost companies and analysts seem to have come down 
on yes as the answer, and many companies add back 
stock-based compensation to get to adjusted earnings.
qI disagree strongly. There is a fundamental difference 
between a non-cash expense like depreciation, where 
you pay nothing, and giving a share of equity (options or 
shares) in lieu of cash.
9
3. Leases are debt
¨The Essence of Debt: When you borrow money, you create contractual 
obligations for the future, and a failure to meet them can put your 
survival as a going concern at risk. 
¨Lease contracts: When you sign a lease contract, you create commitments 
for the future, and a failure to meet these commitments will put your 
survival at risk. Put simply, there is no reason (and there never has been) 
to treat leases as debt.
¨Accounting for leases: Until 2019, accountants disagreed and broke leases 
down into two groups:
¤Capital leases, where the lessee has effective ownership of the asset, is treated as 
debt, with a counter asset. 
¤Operating leases, where the lessee has (temporary) use of the asset for a period, 
were treated as operating expenses, with no debt or counter assets on the balance 
sheet.
Starting in 2019, both GAAP and IFRS are requiring companies to treat all lease 
commitments as debt, no matter how structured.
10
Capitalizing Leases
¨The process of converting lease commitments to debt follows a simple 
process, akin to how any bank debt or corporate bond can be valued.
¨Here are the steps:
¤Start with the contractual lease commitments for future years, by year .
¤Compute the pre-tax cost of borrowing for the firm today, based upon its default 
risk.
¤Take the present value of lease commitments, using the pre-tax cost of debt as your 
discount rate.
¨The present value of lease commitments is treated as debt, with the same 
value shown as a counter-asset. 
¨To complete the cycle, you compute interest expenses on the lease debt 
and depreciation on the counter asset and bring them into your income 
statement.
¤Interest expense on lease debt = PV of lease commitments * Pre-tax cost of debt
¤Depreciation on lease asset is computed using the life of the lease (as the life of the 
asset) and the depreciation method chosen.
11
Other Contractual Commitments
¨While accounting has (finally) come to terms with 
treating leases as debt, there are a whole host of 
contractual commitments that share the same 
characteristics as leases, and require the same 
treatment.
¨Here are some examples:
1. Purchase commitments for many manufacturing firms
2. Content commitments at a streaming company (like 
Netflix)
3. Player contracts for a sports team
12
4. R&D is a cap ex
¨If the essence of a capital expenditure is that it is an expense 
whose expected benefits are not just in the current period, but in 
future periods, research and development (R&D) expenses clearly 
fit the bill.
¨That said, accounting rules around the world, for the most part, 
require companies to expense R&D, using one of two rationale:
¤The benefits of R&D are too uncertain. Consequently, they should be 
expensed until the R&D is closer to commercial development.
¤It is better to be conservative in estimating earnings.
¨Neither justification makes sense. 
¤Uncertainty is never used with other types of capital expenditure (building 
a factory to make a new and untested product) as the divining rod for 
capital vs operating expenses. 
¤Accounting should deliver the most realistic estimate of earnings, not the 
most conservative.
13
Capitalizing R&D
¨To capitalize R&D, there are three steps:
¤Step 1: Estimate an amortizable life for R&D by making your best 
judgment on how long it takes, on average, for R&D to pay off (as 
commercial success).
¤Step 2: Collect R&D expenses from past years (going back as long as 
the amortizable life). If your company has not been in existence for 
that long, collect as many years as you can.
¤Step 3: For each of the past years of R&D, estimate
nHow much you will be amortizing this year
nHow much of the R&D expense remains unamortized
¨To complete the cycle, here are the last steps:
¤Adjust earnings by adding back the current year’s R&D expense and 
subtracting out the amortization of past years R&D
¤Show the unamortized R&D as an asset, and show the same amount as 
an increase in book equity.
14
Other Capital Investments
¨There are other expenses that fit the R&D profile, i.e., 
expenses designed to create benefits over many years, 
but since these investments are not in physical assets, 
they are treated as operating expenses.
¨Here are some examples:
¤Advertising expenses by a consumer product company to build 
up brand name
¤Recruiting and training expensesby a consulting firm to build its 
consulting practice
¤Exploration costs for an oil company
¤Customer acquisition costs for a subscriber or user based 
company.
15
The Bottom Line: Trust, but verify…
¨Accounting statements reflect not only an 
“accounting” view of the company, but the burden 
of accounting history and legacy rules.
¨When analyzing a company, you should start with 
accounting statements, but you should have no 
qualms about changing, modifying or redoing them 
to reflect what you are trying to do with the data in 
those statements.
