Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/postclass/session5test.pdf

Session	5:	Post	Class	tests	
1. Which	of	the	following	explains	why	effective	tax	rates	are	usually	lower	than	
marginal	(or	statutory)	tax	rates	for	most	firms?	
a. Multinational	companies	generate	significant	revenues	from	foreign	
markets	
b. Tax	deferral	strategies	used	by	firms	
c. Differences	in	taxable	income	between	tax	books	and	reporting	books	
d. Operating	loss	carry	forwards	
e. All	of	the	above	
2. In	accounting,	the	primary	reason	for	R&D	being	treated	as	operating	
expenses,	rather	than	capital	expenses,	is:	
a. That	R&D	expenses	are	usually	small,	relative	to	other	operating	
expenses	
b. That	the	benefits	from	R&D	are	too	uncertain.	
c. That	R&D	expenses	deliver	benefits	primarily	in	the	current	year	
d. That	the	objective	in	accounting	is	to	be	conservative	in	estimating	
earnings.	
e. That	they	are	investments	in	intangible	assets	
3. When	converting	leases	to	debt,	which	of	the	following	processes	do	we	
follow	to	make	the	conversion?	
a. Discount	contractual	lease	commitments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	
using	the	pre-tax	cost	of	debt	as	the	discount	rate	
b. Discount	contractual	lease	commitments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	
using	the	after-tax	cost	of	debt	as	the	discount	rate	
c. Discount	contractual	lease	commitments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	
using	the	cost	of	capital	as	the	discount	rate	
d. Discount	expected	lease	payments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	using	
the	pre-tax	cost	of	debt	as	the	discount	rate	
e. Discount	expected	lease	payments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	using	
the	after-tax	cost	of	debt	as	the	discount	rate	
f. Discount	expected	lease	payments	in	future	years	back	to	today,	using	
the	cost	of	capital	as	the	discount	rate	
4. Based	upon	current	IFRS	and	GAAP	accounting,	when	companies	use	options	
to	compensate	employees,	how	and	when	are	earnings	affected?	
a. Lowered	in	the	period	of	the	grant,	by	the	exercise	value	of	options	
(Stock	price	minus	Exercise	price	on	the	option)	
b. Lowered	in	the	period	of	the	grant,	by	the	estimated	value	of	options	
at	the	time	of	the	grant	
c. Lowered	in	the	period	of	the	grant,	by	the	estimated	value	of	options,	
but	only	if	they	are	in-the-money.	(Stock	price	>	Exercise	price)	
d. Lowered	in	the	period	that	they	are	exercised,	by	the	exercise	value	of	
the	options	(Stock	price	minus	Exercise	price	on	the	option)	
e. They	have	no	effect	on	earnings
5. When	companies	use	restricted	stock	to	compensate	employees,	these	shares	
cannot	be	claimed	by	employees	until	they	are	vested.		What	effect	do	these	
grants	have	on	share	count?	
a. Share	count	is	not	affected,	until	the	restrictions	on	shares	are	
removed	
b. Share	count	is	not	affected,	until	the	restricted	shares	get	vested.	
c. Share	count	will	increase	by	the	number	of	restricted	shares,	at	the	
time	of	the	grant.	
d. Share	count	will	never	be	affected.	Restricted	shares	don’t	count.	
e. None	of	the	above
