Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/LessonsfromLeo.pdf

Themixed blessings of investment conviction!
2
§Earlier this year, I was asked what I thought about Leopold 
Aschenbrenner and I admitted that I knew little about him other 
than what I had read about him, more in social media, than in the 
press -that he was a 25-year-old wunderkind who had started at 
OpenAI but had left to start a hedge fund. 
§That hedge fund, built entirely around a bet that AI would pay 
off big time and near term, buying companies in the AI orbit 
and selling short on the businesses (especially software) that 
AI would disrupt, had been able to raise billions of dollars from 
well-heeled and presumably sophisticated investors, and 
hadposted eye-popping returns, up almost 450% through late 
June. 
§In this case, the fall from grace was precipitous, and over the 
course of four weeks, the fund not only lost more than two 
thirds of its value, but was also forced to liquidate, with Citadel 
buying almost all ofits public equity holdings.
3
§For older investors, the lesson was that you can be blessed 
with intelligence, but that wisdom required experience, which, 
at least in their saying, conveniently comes with age. 
§For value investors, many of whom chafed at Leo being hailed 
as the next Buffett, there was vindication that there will never 
be another Buffett. 
§For AI skeptics, who have long been on the lookout for 
catalysts that will break AI fever, there was at least brief 
momentof hope that this was the catalyst. 
§There is some truth and some overreach in each of these 
responses,and I don't plan to rehash them. Instead, I would 
like to use this story to talk aboutinvesting conviction, words 
used mostly in a favorable way, when people talk about success 
in markets.
4
§The short version of his life story is that he was born in 
Germany in 2001, andenrolled at Columbia University when he 
was 15. 
§After graduating with a degree in economics in 2021, doing 
research briefly at Oxford University and working at Sam 
Bankman-Fried's FTX fund, Leo joined OpenAI as part of the 
team working on AI safety. 
§He was fired in 2024 for leaking data on the firm, though his 
motivations for doing so are murky and he contests the 
allegation, and he publisheda long (167 page) paper titled 
"Situational Awareness: The Decade Ahead",which was not 
only widely circulated, but also became the blueprint for the 
fund that he created.
5
6
§In market time, where decades of over performance are 
needed to separate luck than skill, a fund that has been 
successful for a little more than two years qualifies more 
as a shooting starthan as a beacon of light. 
§Todeliver returns of this magnitude, you not only have to be 
right in your guesses, but those guesses must be super-
charged by adding substantial leverage to your strategy, 
either explicitly (by borrowing) or implicitly (by using options). 
§Thefund followed the classic 2% (of funds under 
management) and 20 (% of specified upside) fee structure, 
an abomination that not only creates an almost insurmountable 
handicap, in the long term, for investors in the fund, but also 
encourages reckless risk taking on the part of management.
7
8
§Leo's core belief that AI would win the battle with the status 
quo in most businesses, and that the win would be decisive 
and quick, was not unique, and not only are there other 
investors who shared that view, but there are also companies 
that are investing in AI cap ex, driven by that view. 
§That said, to get from that view to a hedge fund built entirely 
around buying AI winners and selling AI losers requires that 
the belief to be deeply set and using debt to magnify those 
returns suggests strong conviction.
9
As you can see, the elevation of conviction as something to be sought 
after in investing is because in the complete absence of conviction, 
you will not act and that paralysis can result in portfolios entirely 
or almost entirely held as cash.
10
11
§Your assessment of "fair" price is right(or at least more 
right than the market consensus)
§The market will correct, i.e., that the market price will move 
to, or towards, your fair price
§This correction will happen during the time you plan to 
hold the investment (your time horizon), either because the 
investment has an expiration date (maturity) or because you 
feel that there will be a catalyst that causes the correction.
12
1. Private information: Yo u  may be in possession of information about an 
investment that is not available (or at least widely enough available to 
the public to be priced in) that you believe will change its price.
2. Information processing: To the extent that private information is rarely 
available to investors, and even if available, difficult to act on legally, 
much of active investing is built around collecting and processing 
information that is available to the market. If you are using this 
information to assess a fair price, it is because you believe that you have 
found patterns in the data that others have not.
3. Business understanding: In some cases, your fair price will derive from 
your belief that you understand the business economics for a company 
better than other public investors do, with your superior understanding 
coming either from working in the business or from technical training. 
4. Pricing mistake:There are some investment theses that start with a 
market mistake, whether it be in pricing an individual asset or a pair of 
assets. With a pair of assets, often with similar fundamentals, the 
mispricing manifests with one of the assets being mispriced against the 
other, and the correction take place when the mispricing disappears.
13
§Finite maturity versus indeterminate end game: An investment with a finite 
maturity date comes with a greater likelihood that prices will correct than 
one without. A bond that is mispriced, by itself, or against other bonds of 
equal maturity, comes with a greater chance of correction than a stock that 
is mispriced against its own fundamentals or a paired stock. 
§Market frictions: Market mispricing can sometimes reflect market 
inattention or irrational trading, but they more often are the consequence 
of market frictions, including restrictions on selling short and exerting 
control over an investment (such as buying and liquidating a company). 
§Market liquidity and depth: In equity markets, where there is no date by 
which mispricing has to disappear, corrections often require catalysts, i.e., 
events that lead market participants to reassess a market price, and to 
correct it. Those catalysts can come from corporate disclosures (earnings 
reports, for instance) by the mispriced company, corporate restructuring 
(divestitures and spin offs) or high-profile investors (activists taking a 
stake in a under priced company or selling short an overpriced one). 
§Investment time horizon: Being able to wait for longer periods, for market 
corrections, should not only give you a greater chance of gaining from a 
market correction, but also give you more conviction in your investment, 
other things being equal.
14
§Intelligence and educational background:The smarter an investor is, and 
the more exceptional his or her educational background (the right 
schools, credentials and certification), the greater the conviction that 
investor is likely to bring to investments. One reason is that it becomes 
easier to attribute perceived market mistakes to the lack of 
intelligence of other market participants than it is to take a closer look 
at real reasons why they may not be mistakes in the first place.
§Personality: Like conviction, self confidence falls on a spectrum with 
wide differences across human beings. Some investors measure low on 
the self confidence scale, and look to others for big decisions. Others 
measure higher on the self-confidence scale and are willing to make 
decisions with incomplete information and in the face of uncertainty and 
disagreement. Still others have so much self confidence and so little self 
doubt that they risk having convictions that are out of sync with reality.
§Track record: It is undeniable that some of the worst investment lessons are 
learned from that success. Much as Wall Street likes its adages of "not 
mistaking dumb luck for skill", investors are quick to forget them when 
an investment bet that they make pays off, especially when their 
success leads to iconic and admiring profiles ("the next Buffett") and 
investor capital pouring in.
15
§Conviction matters in investing because it affects two choices 
that investors make 
-the sizing of positions (with more conviction leading to larger
-positions in the same investment) and the use of financial leverage 
(with more conviction often translating into a willingness to borrow 
more money to fund the investment).
-If the conviction is well-founded, there is nothing wrong with 
concentrating your investment or borrowing money to fund it, 
but if it is overstated (because you misread your initial pricing 
edge or overestimated the presence of market catalysts or are 
overconfident), the same actions (concentration and 
borrowing) can be deadly.
16
17
18
19
§Using a life cycle framework, you can see that you can be more tolerant of 
concentrated portfolios, with debt added on, when you invest in 
mature companies than you should be when investing in younger 
companies. 
§By the same token, investors who find pricing mistakes in younger 
companies, but are daunted by the noisiness of their estimates or 
uncertainty about markets correcting, and thus are low on the conviction 
scale, can overcome their reluctance to act by spreading their bets across 
many such companies. 
§As some of you may be aware, I did value SpaceX at the time of its IPO 
at about $100 a share, and as the price has drifted down towards that 
price, I may very well be faced with an underpriced stock (where the 
market price drops below $100). Given the uncertainty that is associated 
with my estimate, and you can see itin the simulation that I reported in my 
post,it is unlikely that I would ever have sufficient conviction to make 
SpaceX the biggest or only investment in my portfolio, but I stand ready to 
buy the stock as part of a portfolio, where it is one of many bets that I make 
on markets.
20
§I have no issues with Leo's story of AI winning big in the near-term 
and buying the winners and selling the losers that will result. It is 
macro story investing, and it has worked for some in the past 
and failed for others, but if timed right, it can deliver 
significant returns. 
§I also have no bone to pick with investors using financial 
leverage to supercharge their returns, albeit with low-risk 
investments, though I remain concerned that the (2 & 20) fee 
structure may lead them to use too much debt. 
§My concern with Situational Awareness, as a fund, and this would 
have been true on June 19, even at it peak, is that combining a 
macro story about AI winning with maximal leverage creates a 
time bomb. The AI story , no matter how well told, has multiple 
obstacles to overcome, some related to business economics 
and some to politics and regulation, and is a risky bet, and it 
makes sense to fund it with significant amounts of debt.
21
§If you look at the composition of Situation Awareness portfolio 
through much of its rise and fall, the long positions were 
primarily in companies that benefit from the build-up of Ai 
architecture, selling their products and services to the hyper 
scalers and LLM companies, and the short positions were in 
software and other businesses that would be disrupted by the 
rise of AI. 
§With both groups, Situational Awareness was taking bets that 
were in line with what the market was pricing in already, albeit 
in a more concentrated and leveraged form. 
§While market observers were quick to link both the rise and fall of 
Situational Awareness to the AI story, you can make just as strong a 
case that much of that happened at the fund over its brief 
existence can be explained by momentum, with leverage acting 
as a super charger; continued momentum generated the outsized 
return though June 19, and the market reversal in July caused the 
correction.
22
§The legend of smart money persists in markets, where investors 
who are smarter than the rest of us, with access to information and 
capital that others do not possess, deliver supersize returns for 
themselves and those that they invite into their inner circle. 
§That legend serves everyone's interests, since the smart money 
uses its reputation to attract more capital and the not-so-smart 
money has someone else (hedge funds, insiders, activists) to 
blame for investment setbacks. 
§The problem with smart money is that its self-regard makes its 
susceptible to attributing more precision to its own 
convictions, than merited by the circumstances, and that, in 
turn, results in overreach. 
§Investors, in my view, are better served by humble money , quick 
to recognize that winning is often due to luck, not skill, and 
open to self doubt.
23
§I hope that you don't view this as a hit piece on Leo or AI, 
since that was not my intent. 
§In fact, I hope that Leo persists and perhaps even comes 
back as a fund manager, sincehe strikes me as an original 
thinker who is willing to take a stand, both scarce qualities 
among active fund managers. 
§I also hope that he has learned some lessons, especially on 
humility and restraint, for his next go around, and that he 
adopts a fee structure that gives his investors a chance of 
beating the market in the long term.
