Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/BigNameInvestors.pdf

ICAHN	EXITS,	BUFFETT	ENTERS,	
WHITHER	APPLE?	BIG	NAME	
INVESTING	AND	YOU
Learning	from	smart	money
2
Setting	the	table
¨ In	most	investment	classes,	you	are	taught	that	to	invest	
in	a	company,	you	assess	its	value	to	you,	compare	that	
value	to	the	price	and	make	a	pricing	judgment.	
¨ That	may	be	true,	but	what	if	right	after	you	make	that	
judgment,	a	“big	name”	investor	makes	a	judgment	on	
the	same	stock	that	is	diametrically	opposed	to	yours.	
Should	you	reassess	or	change	your	judgment?
¨ In	an	investment	world,	where	big	name	investors	are	
not	only	far	more	public	in	their	investment	judgments	
than	they	used	to	be	and	have	the	forums	(TV,	
Newspapers,	Social	media	etc.)	to	go	public	with	them,	
this	is	a	question	that	we	increasingly	face.
3
The	Price	Value	Set	up
4
How	a	big	name	investor	can	change	your	
perspectives..
5
The	Big	Name	Insider
¨ When	an	insider	(a	manager ,	an	inside	stockholder ,	
someone	close	to	management)	buys	or	sells	stock,	
it	is	natural	to	assume	that	they	are	doing	so	
because	they	know	something	that	the	rest	of	use	
do	not.
¨ With	insider	trading	laws,	the	question	of	course	is	
one	of	legality,	since	insiders	are	specifically	
prohibited	from	trading	ahead	of	material	
information.	However ,	they	are	not	precluded	from	
trading	on	diffuse	information	that	is	still	of	value	to	
the	rest	of	the	market.
6
The	Big	Name	Activist
7
The	Big	Name	Trader
¨ In	some	cases,	the	big	name	entering	or	exiting	the	stock	
is	a	trader,	i.e.,	someone	who	is	perceived	as	very	good	
at	playing	the	pricing	game,	where	you	skill	set	is	
detecting	momentum	(and	its	shifts).
¨ There	 are	two	reasons	why	that	trading	can	affect	prices:
¤ The	volume	 effect:	 If	the	big	name	trader	has	enough	 money	 to	
back	his	or	her	trade,	there	will	be	a	liquidity	 effect,	where	a	buy	
will	 push	 the	price	 up	higher	 and	a	sell	 will	 push	 it	lower.
¤ The	bandwagon	 effect:	To	the	extent	that	there	are	some	in	the	
market	 who	 perceive	 the	 big	name	 trader	 as	better	 at	perceiving	
momentum	 swings	 than	the	rest	of	us,	they	will	 follow	 the	
investor	in	buying	or	selling	 the	stock.
8
The	Big	Name	Value	Investor
¨ If	you	are	a	small	value	investor ,	the	name	of	the	
game	is	finding	companies	where	there	is	a	gap	(or	
at	least	a	perceived	gap)	between	price	and	value	
and	investing	in	those	companies.
¨ To	make	mon ey,	y ou 	h av e	to	
¤ Be	right	in	your	assessments	of	value
¤ Hope	that	the	pricing	gap	will	close
¨ When	a	big	name	value	investor	 steps	into	the	fray,	
you	are	hoping	that	his	or	her	very	appearance	will	
be	the	catalyst	for	the	gap	to	close.
9
Apple:	The	Big	Name	Effect?
10
Icahn,	Activist	Trader?
¨ He	is	an	activist,	albeit	one	who	is	more	active	on	
the	financing/dividend	dimensions	than	on	the	
operating	restructuring	dimension.
¨ He	is	a	trader ,	more	than	an	investor .	 His	investment	
rationale	is	couched	in	trading	terms	(looks	cheap,	
relative	to..)	and	the	way	he	attaches	numbers	to	
companies	is	based	on	trading	tools	(per	share	
earnings	and	multiples).
¨ He	has	a	record	of	success,	suggesting	that	he	is	very	
good	in	his	targeting	of	companies	(for	his	debt/cash	
push)	and	trading.
11
Buffett,	Value	Investor?
¨ Of	course,	but	his	valuation	niche	is	companies	that	
are	mature	or	beyond	mature,	with	strong	earnings	
and	high	moats.
¨ When	Buffett	invests,	it	is	reasonable	to	extrapolate	
that	
¤ The	company	looks	cheap	to	him	(i.e.,	that	he	perceives	a	
pricing	gap)
¤ The	company’ s	best	days	are	behind	it,	i.e.,	that	your	
returns	are	likely	to	come	from	the	cash	cow	part	rather	
than	the	growth	part	of	the	business.
12
The	Bottom	Line
¨ It	is	impractical	and	unrealistic	to	argue	that	your	
investment	 decisions	are	yours	and	yours	alone	and	
that	you	will	be	unmoved	by	the	investment	
decisions	of	others,	especially	when	you	respect	and	
value	the	judgment	of	these	“others” .
¨ That	said,	if	you	are	constantly	second	guessing	and	
changing	your	investment	 decisions	based	upon	
what	Icahn,	Buffett	or	anyone	else	is	doing,	your	
investment	 philosophy	has	no	grounding.
¨ Make	your	best	investment	 judgments	and	keep	the	
feedback	loop	open.
