Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ROESimple.pdf

Back to Basics
§While I was working on my last two data updates for 2025, I got 
sidetracked, as I am wont to do, by two events. 
§The first was the response that I received tomy last data update, 
where I looked at the profitability of businesses, and specifically 
at how acomparison of accounting returns on equity (capital) to 
costs of equity (capital) can yield a measure of excess returns. 
§The second was a comment that I made on a LinkedIn postthat 
had built on my implied equity premium approach to the Indian 
market but had run into a roadblock because of an assumption that, 
in an efficient market, the return on equity would equate to the cost 
of equity. 
§I pointed to the flaw in the logic, but the comments thereafter 
suggested such deep confusion about what returns on 
equity or capital measure, and what comprises an efficient 
market, that I think it does make sense to go back to basics and 
see if some of the confusion can be cleared up.
Aswath Damodaran 2
Aswath Damodaran 3
§On business A, the story has to beone of strong barriers to 
entrythat allow it to sustain its excess returns in perpetuity, 
and those could include anything from a superlative brand 
name to patent protection to exclusive access to a natural 
resource. In the absence of these competitive advantages, these 
excess returns would have faded very quickly over time.
§On business B, you have a challenge, since it does seem 
irrational that an entrepreneur would enter a bad business, and 
while that irrationality cannot be ruled out (perhaps the 
entrepreneur thinks that earning any profit makes for a good 
business), the reality is that outside events can wreak havoc 
on the bet paid plans of businesses. For instance, it is 
possible that the entrepreneur’s initial expectations were that 
he or she would earn much more than 5%, but a competitor 
launching a much better product or a regulatory change could 
have changed those expectations.
Aswath Damodaran 5
§If markets are efficient, the price to book ratios will reflect the 
quality of these companies.
§In this example, for instance, business A, with a market value of 
equity of $150 million and a book value of equity of $60 million, will 
trade at 2.50 times book value, whereas company B with a market 
value of equity of $30 million and a book value of equity of $60 
million will trade at half of book value. 
§Both companies would be fairly valued, though the first trades at 
well above book value and the second at well below
§This is why a lazy variant of value investing, built almost 
entirely on buying stocks that trade at low price to book ratio,, 
will lead you to holding bad businesses, not undervalued ones.
Aswath Damodaran 6
§The working definition that some commenters used for return 
on equity was obtained bydividing the net income by the 
market value of equity. 
§That is not return on equity, but an earnings to price ratio, i.e., 
the earnings yield, and in these examples,with no growth and 
perpetual (constant) net income, that earnings yield will be 
equal to the cost of equity in an efficient market.
§However, in a world with growth and reinvestment, the 
relationship between earnings yield and cost of equity will not 
yield a conclusion about market efficiency.
¨8
§To illustrate with our simple example, assume that half the 
money invested in business A is in R&D, which accountants 
expense, instead of capitalizing. 
§That business will report a loss of $15 million (with the R&D 
expense of $30 million more than wiping out the profit of $15 
million) in the first year on book capital of $30 million (the 
portion of the capital invested that is not R&D), but in the years 
following, it will report a return on equity of 50% (since net 
income will revert back to $15 million, and equity will stay at 
$30 million). 
§Carrying this through to the real world, you should not be 
surprised to see technology and pharmaceutical 
companies, the two biggest spenders on R&D, report much 
higher accounting returns than they are actually earning on 
their investments..
Aswath Damodaran 9
§As assets age, two tensions appear that can throw off book 
value, the first beinginflation, which if not adjusted for, will 
result in the book value being understated, and accounting 
returns overstated. 
§The other isaccounting depreciation, which often has little to 
do with economic depreciation (value lost from aging), and 
subject to gaming. 
§Extrapolating, projects and companies with older assets will 
tend to have overstated accounting returns, as inflation and 
depreciation lay waste to book values. In fact, with an aging 
company, and adding in stock buybacks, the book value of 
equity can become negative(and is negative for about 10% 
of the companies in my company data sample).
Aswath Damodaran 10
§In my view, fair value accounting is pointless, and I can use my 
simple example to illustrate why. 
§If you marked the assets of both company A and company B to 
market, you would end with book values of $150 million and 
$30 million for the two companies and returns on equity of 10% 
for both firms. 
§In short, if fair value accounting does what it is supposed to do, 
every firm in the market will earn a return on equity (capital) equal 
to the cost of equity (capital), rendering it useless as a metric for 
separating good and bad businesses. 
§If fair value accounting fails at what it is supposed to do, which is 
the more likely scenario, you will end up with book values of equity 
that measure neither original capital invested nor current market 
value, and returns on equity and capital that become noise.
§Introducing growth into the equation changes none of the 
conclusions that we have drawn so far, butit makes reading both 
the return on equity and the earnings yield much messier.
§To see why, assume that company A in the example continues to have no 
growth, but company B expects to see compounded annual growth of 
50% a year in its net income of $3 million for the next decade.
§We can no longer consign company B to the bad business pile as easily, 
and the current earnings to price ratio for that company will no longer 
be equal to the cost of equity, even if markets are efficient. 
§Incorporating growth into the analysis will also mean that net 
income is not equal to cash flow, since some or a large portion of 
that net income will have to get reinvested back to deliver the 
growth. 
§In fact, this is the argument that I used inmy second data updateto 
explain why comparing the earnings yield to the treasury bond 
rate is unlikely to yield a complete assessment of whether stocks 
are under or over valued, since it ignores growth and reinvestment 
entirely.
§This example also helps to bring home why it is so difficult for 
companies in bad businesses to fix their "badness" or exit their 
businesses. 
§In the case of company B, for instance, telling the manager to 
find projects that earn more than 10% is advice that can be 
freely dished out, but how exactly do you invent good projects 
in a business that has turned bad? 
§While exiting the business seems to be a better choice, that 
presupposes that you will get your capital ($60 million) back 
when you do, but in the real world, potential buyers will 
discount that value. 
§In fact, if you divest or sell the bad business for less than $30 
million, you are actually worse off than staying in the business and 
continuing to generate $3 million a year in perpetuity, which has a 
$30 million value.
§Many of the comments on my seventh data update and on my 
explanation about why ROE and cost of equity don’t have to be 
equal in an efficient market came from people with degrees and 
certifications in finance, and quite a few of the commenters had 
“finance professional” listed in their profile. 
§Rather than take issue with them, I would argue that this 
misunderstanding of basics is a damning indictment of how we 
teach these concepts and topics in the classroom, and one 
reason that I wrote this post is to remind myself that I have to 
revisit the basics, before making ambitious leaps into corporate 
financial analysis and valuation. 
§For those of you who are not finance professionals, but rely on them 
for advice, I hope this is a cautionary note on taking these 
professionals (consultants, appraisers, bankers) at their word. 
Some of them throw buzzwords and metrics around, with little 
understanding of what they mean and how they are related, and it 
is caveat emptor.
