Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate1for2022.pdf

DATA UPDATE 1 FOR 2022: THE 
GOOD,THEBADANDTHEUGLY!
Stories and Numbers
2
A New Year Ritual
Aswath Damodaran
2
¨I return to a ritual that I have practiced for thirty years, 
and that is to take a lookat not just market changes over 
the last year, but also to get a measure of the financial 
standing and practices of companies around the world. 
¨Those measures took a beating in 2020, as COVID 
decimated the earnings of companies in many sectors 
and regions of the world, and while 2021 was a return to 
some degree of normalcy, there is still damage that has 
tobe worked through. 
¨This post will be one of a series, where I will put different 
aspects of financial data under the microscope, to get a 
sense of how companies are adapting (or not) to a 
changing world.
3
The Moneyball Revolution
¨When I first started posting data on my website for 
public consumption, it was designed to encourage 
corporate financial analysts and investors alike to use 
more data in their decision making. 
¨In making that pitch, I drew on one of my favorite 
movies, Moneyball, where Billy Beane (played by Brad 
Pitt), the general manager of the Oakland As, 
revolutionized baseball by using data as an antidote to 
the gut feeling and intuition of old-time baseball scouts.
¨In the years since Beane tried it with baseball, Moneyball 
has decisively won the battle for sporting executives' 
minds, as sport after sport has adopted its adage of 
trusting the data, withbasketball,football,soccerand 
evencricketadopting sabermetrics, as this sporting spin 
off on data science is called.
Aswath Damodaran
3
4
Big Data and Crowd Wisdom
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨As tech companies have expanded their reach into our 
personal lives, collecting information on choices and 
decisions that used to private,big datahas become not just a 
buzzword, but also a justification for investing billions in 
companies/projects that have no discernible pathway to 
profitability, but offer access to data. 
¨Along the way, we have all also bought into the notion 
ofcrowd wisdom, where aggregating the choices of tens of 
thousands of choice-makers, no matter how naive, yields a 
consensus that beats expert opinion. After all, we get our 
restaurant choices from Yelp reviews, our movie 
recommendations from Rotten Tomatoes and we have even 
built crypto currencies around the idea of crowd checking 
transactions.
5
Abelieverand a skeptic…
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨I was a believer in big data and crowd wisdom, well 
before those terms were even invented. After all, I have 
lived much of my professional life in financial markets, 
where there has always been lots of data and market 
prices are set by crowds of investors. 
¨That said, it is my experience with markets that has also 
made me skeptical about the over selling of both 
notions, since we have an entire branch of finance 
(behavioral finance/economics) that has developed to 
explain how more data does not always lead to better 
decisions and why crowds can often be collectively 
wrong.
6
My four caveats
¨ More data is not always better than less data: We as investors and analysts) were 
drowning in data, and that data overload is now a more more imminent danger than 
not have enough data.
¨ Data does not always provide direction: As you work with data, you discover that its 
messages are almost always muddled, and that estimates always come with ranges and 
standard errors. In short, the key discipline that you need to tame and use data is 
statistics, and it is one reason that I created myown quirky version of a statistics 
classon my website.
¨ Mean Reversion works, until it does not: Much of investing over the last century in the 
US has been built on betting on mean reversion. While mean reversion is a strong force 
in stable markets, as the US was for much of the last century, it breaks down when 
there are structural changes in markets and economies, as Iargued in this post
¨ The consensus can be wrong: As you look at the industry averagesI report on 
corporate finance statistics, from debt ratios to dividend yields, remember that just 
because every company in a sector borrows a lot, it does not mean that high debt 
ratios make sense, and if you are using my industry averages on pricing multiples, the 
fact that investors are paying high multiples of revenues for cloud companies does not 
imply that the high pricing is justified.
7
My Data Universe
¨When I first started my data collection and analysis in 1990, 
data was difficult to come by, and when available, it was 
expensive. 
¤Without hundreds of thousands of dollars to spend on databases, I 
started my journey spending about a thousand dollars a year, already 
hitting budget constraints, subscribing to a Value Line database that 
was mailed to me on a CD every year. 
¤That database covered just 1700 US companies, andreported on a 
limited list of variables on each, which I sliced and diced to report on 
about a dozen variables, broken down by industry. 
¨Times have changed, and I now have access to extraordinarily 
detailed data on almost all publicly traded global companies. I 
am grateful to all the services that provide me with raw data, 
but I am cognizant that they are businesses, and try not to 
undercut them, or act as a competitor .
8
Companies in my database: Numbers, by 
Region
9
And by market cap
10
By Sector..
11
By industry group…
12
Data Variables: Macro
¨ Risk Premiums: I report the latest estimates of these corporate bond spreadsat this 
link. In the equity market, the price of risk (equity risk premium) is more difficult to 
observe, and I start by reporting on the conventional estimate of this measure by 
looking at historical returns (going back to 1928) onstocks, bonds, bills and real estate 
at this link. I offer an alternative forward-looking and more dynamic measure of this 
premium in an implied premium, with thestart of 2022 estimate hereand the 
historical values (going back to 1960) ofthis implied premium here.
¨ Risk free Rates: While the US treasury bond rate is widely reported, I contrast its actual 
value with what I call an intrinsic measure of the rate, computed by adding the inflation 
rate to real growth each yearat this link.
¨ Currency and Country Risk: Since valuation often requires comfort with moving across 
currencies, I provide estimates of risk freerates in different currenciesat this link. I 
extend my equity risk premium approach to cover other countries, using sovereign 
default spreads as my starting point,at this link.
¨ Tax Rates: Since the old saying about death and taxes is true, I report on marginal tax 
rates in different countriesat this link, and while I would love to claim that I did the 
hard work, the credit belongs to KPMG for keeping this data updated over time.
13
Data Variables: Company Level
14
Data Timing…
¨ Almost all ofthe data that you will see in my updatesreflectsdata that I 
have collected in the last week (January 1, 2022-January 8, 2022. 
¨That said, there will be difference in timeliness on different data 
variables,largely based uponwhether the data comes from the market or 
from financial statements. 
¤For data that comes from the market, such as market capitalization and costs of 
capital, the current data is as of January 1, 2022.
¤For data that comes from financial statements, the numbers that I use come from 
the most recent filings, which for most companies will be data throughSeptember 
30, 2021. 
¤Thus, my trailing PE ratio for January 1, 2022, is computed by dividing the market 
capitalization on January 1, 2022, by the earnings in the twelve months ending in 
September 2021. 
¤While that may seem inconsistent, it is totally consistent with the idea that you use 
the most current data that you can get for each variable, when doing analyses.
15
Andtimeliness…
¨As we go through the year, both the market and the 
accounting numbers will change, and a full-fledged data 
service would recompute and update the numbers. 
¨I am not, and have no desire to be, a data service, and 
will not be updating untilthe start of 2023. 
¨There are twopotential dangers in using my data later in 
the year
¤With the first emerging if the market sees a steep shift, up 
ordown, which will alter all ofthe pricingmultiples 
¤And the second occurring in sectors that are either transforming 
quickly (disrupted sectors) or are commodity-based (where 
changes in commodity prices can alter financials quickly).
16
Estimation Choices
¨ When I embarked on the task of estimating industry averages, I must confess that 
I did not think much of the mechanics of how to compute those averages, 
assuming thatall I would have to do is take the mean of a series of numbers. I 
realized very quickly that computing industry averages for pricing and accounting 
ratios was not that simple. 
¨ To illustrate why, I present you with a slice of my table of PE ratios, by industry 
grouping, for US firms, the start of 2022:
17
And missing data…
¨The other issue that I had to confront, especially because 
my large sampleincludes many small companies, listed 
and traded in markets with information disclosure holes, 
is whether to restrict my sample tomarkets like the US 
and Europe, where information is more dependable and 
complete, or to stay with my larger sample. 
¨The problem with doing the former is that you create 
bias in your statistics by removing smaller and risker 
firms from your sample, and I chose to have my cake and 
eat it too, by keeping all the firms in my global sample, 
but also reporting the averages for US and European 
firms separately.
18
Using the Data
¨Understand the data: I have tried my best to describe how I compute my 
numbers in the spreadsheets that contain the data, in a worksheet titled 
"Variables and FAQ". On some of the variables, especially on equity risk 
premiums, you may want to read the papers that I have, where I explain 
my reasoning, or watch my classes on them. Whatever you do, and this is 
general advice, never use data from an external source (including mine), if 
you do not understand how the data is computed.
¨Take ownership: If you decide to use any of my data, especially in 
corporate financial analysis and valuation, please recognize that it is still 
your analysis or valuation.
¨Don't bring me personally into your disagreements, especially in legal 
settings: If you are in disagreementwith a colleague, a client or an 
adversary, I am okay with you using data from my website to buttress your 
arguments, but please do not bring me in personally into your debates. 
This applies in spades, if you are in a legal setting, since I believe that 
courts are where valuation first principles go to die.
19
In conclusion…
¨I would love to tell you that I am driven by altruistic 
motives in sharing my data, and push for sainthood, but I 
am not.
¤I would have produced all ofthe data that you see anyway, 
because I will need it for my work, both inteaching and in 
practice, all year . 
¤If there is a hidden agenda here, it is that I think that in spite of
advances over the last few decades, the investing world still has 
imbalances, especially on data access, and I would like it make a 
little flatter .
¨Having produced the data, it seems churlish to not share 
it, especially since it costs me absolutely nothing to do 
so. If you find the datauseful, I am glad, and rather than 
thank me, please pass on the sharing.
