Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ValueInvesting3.pdf

VALUE INVESTING III: REQUIEM, 
REBIRTH OR REINCARNATION!
The Lead In
2
Value Investing has lost its way!
¨ It has become rigid : In the decades since Ben Graham published Security Analysis, 
value investing has developed rules for investing that have no give to them. Some of 
these rules reflect value investing history (screens for current and quick ratios), some 
are a throwback in time and some just seem curmudgeonly. For instance, 
¤ Value investing has been steadfast in its view that companies that do not have significant 
tangible assets, relative to their market value, and that view has kept many value investors out 
of technology stocks for most of the last three decades. 
¤ Value investing's focus on dividends has caused adherents to concentrate their holdings in 
utilities, financial service companies and older consumer product companies, as younger 
companies have shifted away to returning cash in buybacks.
¨ It is ritualistic: The rituals of value investing are well established, from the annual trek 
to Omaha, to the claim that your investment education is incomplete unless you have 
read Ben Graham's Intelligent Investor and Security Analysis to an almost 
unquestioning belief that anything said by Warren Buffett or Charlie Munger has to be 
right.
¨ And righteous: While investors of all stripes believe that their "investing ways" will yield 
payoffs, some value investors seem to feel entitled to high returns because they have 
followed all of the rules and rituals. In fact, they view investors who deviate from the 
script as shallow speculators, but are convinced that they will fail in the "long term".
3
1. Be clearer about value vs price..
• Value is a function of cash flows, growth and risk , and any intrinsic valuation 
model that does not explicitly forecast cash flows or adjust for risk is lacking core 
elements. 
• Price is determined by demand and supply, and moved by mood and momentum, 
and you price an asset by looking at how the market is pricing comparable or 
similar assets.
• Many value investors seem to view discounted cash flow valuation as a 
speculative exercise, and instead pin their analysis on comparing comparing on 
pricing multiples (PE, Price to book etc.).
4
Value Drivers…
5
2. Avoiding uncertainty cannot be the end 
game…
6
Build uncertainty into your valuations…
7
3. The Margin of Safety is not a substitute for 
risk assessment…
8
And increasing MOS creates a trade off…
9
4. Don’t take accounting at face value… Or look 
to accounting rules for salvation..
¨ It is undeniable that value investing has an accounting 
focus, with earnings and book value playing a central 
role in investing strategies. 
¨ There is good reason to trust those numbers less now 
than in decades past, for a few reasons.
¤ One is that companies have become much more aggressive in 
playing accounting games, using pro forma income statements 
to skew the numbers in their favor. 
¤ The second is that as the center of gravity in the economy has 
shifted away from manufacturing companies to technology and 
service companies, accounting has struggled to keep up. In fact, 
it is clear that the accounting treatment of R&D has resulted in 
the understatement of book values of technology and 
pharmaceutical companies.
10
5. You can pick stocks and be diversified… At the 
same time…
¨ While not all value investors make this contention, a 
surprisingly large number seem to view concentrated 
portfolios as a hallmark of good value investing, arguing 
that spreading your bets across too many stocks will 
dilute your upside. 
¨ The choice of whether you want to pick good stocks or 
whether you want to be diversified is a false one, since 
there is no reason you cannot do both. 
¨ After all, you have thousands of publicly traded stocks to 
pick from, and all that diversification requires is that 
rather than put your money in the very best stock or the 
five best stocks, you should hold the best thirty or forty 
stocks.
11
Concentration vs Diversification
12
6. Don’t’ feel entitled to a reward for your 
virtue…
¨ Investing is not a morality play, and there are no virtuous 
ways of making money. The distinction between 
investing and speculating is not only a fine one, but very 
much in the eyes of the beholder . 
¤ To hold any investing philosophy as better than the rest is a sign 
of hubris and an invitation for markets to take you down. 
¤ Keeping an open mind about other investment philosophies can 
not only keep you grounded but allow you to incorporate 
aspects of those philosophies into your own.
¨ If you are a value investor, that is your choice, but it 
should not preclude you from treating other investors 
with respect and borrowing tools to enhance your 
returns.
