Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/Slides/Session4.pdf

SESSION 4: DATA DISTRIBUTIONS
Session 4
Accounting & Statistics
2
Data Distributions: Why they matter!
¨While data descriptive statistics provide you with useful 
information about location, dispersion and symmetry in 
your data, data distributions provide the same 
information in fuller and usually visual form.
¤In its simplest and least complicated form, data (in either 
discrete or continuous form) can be converted into a histogram 
or a bar chart.
¤That histogram/chart provides the same information that data 
descriptive statistics provide
¨When the distributions approach or resemble classic 
statistical distributions, you gain the benefit of being 
able to draw on their established distributional 
properties to extrapolate  from the data.
3
Histogram: Visualizing Data
4
Statistical Distributions
¨While histograms summarize data in visual form, 
there is an advantage to replacing them with one of 
many standardized statistical distributions (normal, 
exponential, uniform etc.).
¤You have tofind a distribution that best fits your data in 
terms of symmetry, skewness and tails. 
¤The benefit of using a standardized distribution is that you 
can  draw on their established distributional properties to 
extrapolate  from the data or to make probabilistic 
statements relating to the data.
5
The Normal Distribution
6
And its properties…
¨Dispersion: The standard deviation in a normal 
distribution measures the spread around the mean, but 
with links to probabilities of a number occurring in the 
sample falling within or out of that spread.
¨Skewness: A normal distribution is symmetric and has no 
skewness.
¨Kurtosis: A variable that is normally distributed can take 
on values from minus infinity to plus infinity, but the 
likelihood of extreme values is constrained. The kurtosis 
for a normal distribution is three, which becomes the 
standard against which other distributions are 
measured.
7
A Close Relative: The t distribution
8
A more distant relative: The  (Symmetric) 
Triangular Distribution
9
A Uniform Distribution
10
Negative Skew: Minimum Extreme Value
11
Positive Skew: Log Normal Distribution
12
Thin tails and Fat tails…
13
Measured with kurtosis…
¨Kurtosis is a measure of the combined weights of the 
tails, relative to the rest of the distribution.
¨Most often,kurtosisis measured against thenormal 
distribution. Pearson’s kurtosis is the excess kurtosis 
over three
¤If thePearson kurtosisis close to 0, then anormal 
distributionis often assumed. These are called 
mesokurticdistributions. 
¤If the Pearsonkurtosisis less than 0, then thedistributionhas 
thin tails and is called a platykurticdistribution. (Uniform 
distribution is a good example)
¤If thePearson kurtosisis greater than 0, then 
thedistributionhas fat tails and is called a 
leptokurticdistribution.
