Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/StakeholderValue.pdf

SHAREHOLDERS VS. STOCKHOLDERS: 
CEO CAPITULATION OR EMPTY 
DOUBLESPEAK?
The Corporate End Game
2
Setting the table
¨ The premise of shareholder primacy: For decades, at 
least in theory, the end game for companies has been 
built around the primacy of shareholders. 
¨ A shift in focus? Last week. the Business Roundtable, 
composed of the CEOs of some of America’s largest 
companies, put out a press release that seemed to be 
saying that corporations should be run to protect all 
corporate stakeholders, defined to include customers, 
society and employees. 
¨ It’s personal: Since I teach and write about corporate 
finance, a discipline historically built around shareholder 
wealth maximization, and valuation, which is about 
measuring it.
3
The Business Roundtable sent a message..
¨ While each of our individual companies serves its own corporate purpose, 
we share a fundamental commitment to all of our stakeholders. We 
commit to:
¤ Delivering value to our customers. We will further the tradition of American 
companies leading the way in meeting or exceeding customer expectations.
¤ Investing in our employees . This starts with compensating them fairly and 
providing important benefits. It also includes supporting them through training and 
education that help develop new skills for a rapidly changing world. We foster 
diversity and inclusion, dignity and respect.
¤ Dealing fairly and ethically with our suppliers. We are dedicated to serving as 
good partners to the other companies, large and small, that help us meet our 
missions.
¤ Supporting the communities in which we work . We respect the people in our 
communities and protect the environment by embracing sustainable practices 
across our businesses.
¤ Generating long -term value for shareholders , who provide the capital that allows 
companies to invest, grow and innovate. We are committed to transparency and 
effective engagement with shareholders
4
And chose a messenger…
¨ A very good banker: Jamie Dimon, the CEO of JP Morgan 
Chase, who was the messenger is a very good banker 
and he has excellent political skills, a plus at a money 
center bank. 
¨ Not a shareholder advocate: Over the last decade, Jamie  
Dimon has repeatedly clashed with his own 
stockholders, first over his decision to chair the board of 
directors that is supposed to oversee him and multiple 
times about his compensation. 
¨ Not credible on this topic: Jamie Dimon talking about 
shareholder wealth is about as believable as Madonna 
singing “like a virgin” or Kim Kardashian speaking about 
the importance of privacy.
5
The importance of having an objective
¨ A central choice: To most laymen, the debate about whether 
to focus on shareholders or stakeholders may seem like an 
obscure one that has few consequences for their lives, but it 
is of huge import.
¨ Guides corporate decisions: The choice of an objective or an 
end game drives how decisions get made in companies on:
¤ What new investments to take and what old ones to end or divest.
¤ How to finance these investments, i.e., debt or equity and what types 
of debt and equity instruments
¤ How much and when to return  cash to shareholders
¨ And is the basis for performance evaluation and 
compensation: The choice of objective also drives how 
managers get evaluated and compensated.
6
The stakeholders in a public company
Shareholders invest in equity & own 
company
Corporate managers make decisions on 
what to invest in, how much debt to take & 
how much cash to return to shareholders.
Shareholders exercise control over 
management tyhrough board of 
directors & annual meetings
Customers pay for & receive 
beneﬁts from  company's products 
& services
Banks & bondholders lend to the 
company
Debt covenants restrict corporate 
actions with veto power over some 
actions.
Society receives side beneﬁts and 
bears side costs of corporate 
actions.
Competitors 
provide products 
& services that are 
similar
Employees help 
make the products & 
services that the 
company sells.
Compete for 
market share in 
a product 
market.
Wages and 
beneﬁts 
determined by 
market for labor.
Determined by laws and societal 
norms on acceptable behavior.
Determined by product market 
competition & laws on customer 
protections
7
1. Cutthroat Corporatism
Founder, family or investor group 
own controlling stake.
Maximize founder wealth, with other 
shareholders in the company going along 
for he ride.
Founder/family  control the company 
through voting rights and compliant 
board.
Customers pay higher prices for 
products and services.
Banks & bondholders lend to the 
company
Lenders, controlled or beholden to 
founder/family, impose few or no 
constraints on company.
Society bears large side costs of 
companies, while receiving of the 
side beneﬁts.
Reduce or 
eliminate market 
competition.
Employees get paid 
less to do more.
Use market 
power to drive 
out competition.
Use bargaining 
power to 
minimize wages 
& beneﬁts.
Ignore or subvert laws that are 
designed to protect society.
Use market dominance to drive up  
product/service prices.
Cutthroat Corporatism
The Darwinian End Game: Winning companies dominate or monopolize their markets, exploiting 
customers, employees & society, while enriching their founders (and shareholders).
8
2. Crony Corporatism
Founder, family or government 
ofﬁcial(s) own controlling stake.
Maximize founder wealth, with 
government ofﬁcials beneﬁting in the 
process.
Founder/family  control the company 
through voting rights and compliant 
board.
Customers pay higher prices for 
products and services.
Banks & bondholders lend to the 
company
Lenders, often government banks, 
impose few or no constraints on 
company.
Society bears large side costs of 
companies, while receiving of the 
side beneﬁts.
Reduce or 
eliminate market 
competition.
Employees get paid 
less to do more.
Government 
tilts playing ﬁeld 
in company's 
favor.
Government 
takes 
company's side 
with employees
Government rewrite or refuse to 
enforce rules to protect society.
Laws on competition and monopoly 
power not enforced.
Crony Corporatism
Government & Rule 
Writers
Rule writers are 
coopted or corrupted to 
do corporate bidding.
The Connections End Game: The most-politically connected ompanies dominate or monopolize their 
markets, exploiting customers, employees & society.
9
3. Managerial Corporatism
Shareholders are small and dispersed  
and/or have little power to create change.
Focus on managerial interests, while 
delivering enough to other stakeholders to 
neutralize or neuter them..
Board of Directors operates as 
managerial rubberstampes and annual 
meetings are scripted ineffective events.
Customers  may or may not get a good 
deal for their money, depending on 
whether it serves managers.
Banks & bondholders lend to the 
company
Lenders collect interest and principal 
payments but leave corporate decision 
making to managers.
Society may or many not be well 
served by companies, depending on 
whether it serves managers.
Sector is 
composted of 
larger manager-
dominated 
companies
Employees are 
coopted with wage/
beneﬁt packages 
that are just good 
enough.
Be competitive 
enough to be 
proﬁtable but 
not too 
aggressive.
Buy peace with 
labor with wage 
contracts and 
beneﬁts.
Take actions that advance societal 
interests, but only if they also improve 
managerial standing.
Customer interests will be served, if they 
converge with managerial interests.
Managerial Corporatism
The Managerial End Game: The surviving companies are the ones that ﬁnd a way to keep managers 
happy (either economically or with side beneﬁts) with other stakeholders' interests being served well or 
badly depending on whether they converge with managerial interests.
10
4. Constrained Corporatism
Shareholders own the company with 
equal voting rights.
Maximize shareholder wealth, subject to 
constraints (external or self-imposed)
Board of directors operate as check on 
CEO and shareholders exercise voting 
power at annual meetings.
Customers get a good deal for 
their money.
Banks & bondholders lend to the 
company
Covenants restrict corporate actions, 
but corporations trade off that loss of 
freedom for cheaper debt.
Companies operate as good 
corporate citizens.
Sector is 
winnowed to best 
companies .
Employees get paid 
fair wages.
Play to win, but   
by offering 
better products 
or lower prices.
Employee 
unions or strong 
labor market 
even the game.
Minimize societal costs and add to 
societal beneﬁts.
Treat customers well because you 
want them to be repeat customers.
Constrained Corporatism
The Constrained End Game: The winner companies are the ones that ﬁnd a way to maximize 
shareholder wealth, while being good corporate citizens, protecting employee interests and delivering 
good value to customers.
11
5. Confused Corporatism
Shareholders own the company, but 
share control with other stakeholders.
Maximize stakeholder wealth
Board of directors promote stakeholder 
interests over shareholder interests.
Maximize customer satisfaction, 
even if it may not translate into 
repeat business or proﬁts.
Lenders get paid, but only if payment 
does not endanger other stakeholders.
Lenders have their rights to get paid 
enforced, but only after balanced 
against other stakeholder interests.
Protect society's interests at any 
cost.
Keep the sector 
competitive, 
holding back (if 
necessary) on 
competitive 
advantages.
Ensure that 
employees earn a 
living wage, 
proﬁtability and 
competitive effects 
notwithstanding.
Gain market 
share, but hold 
back on market 
dominance.
Employee 
unions or strong 
labor market 
even the game.
Don't take actions that create costs 
for society & actively try to create 
societal beneﬁts.
Hold back on pricing power, even if 
you have it, to charge less for 
more.
Confused Corporatism
The Confused End Game: No stakeholder's interests will be served but there will be no accountabiity 
for managers, leading to companeis that are less competitive and efﬁcient, when faced with 
competition.
12
If confused corporatism sounds like a good 
deal, some cautionary notes..
¨ Government-owned companies: The managers of these companies 
were given a laundry list of objectives, resembling in large part the 
listing of stakeholder objectives, and told to deliver on them all. 
The end results were some of the most inefficient companies on 
the face of the earth, with every stakeholder group feeling ill-
served in the process. 
¨ US research universities: These entities lack a central focus, where 
whose interests dominate and why shifts, depending on who you 
talk to and when. The end result is not just economically inefficient 
operations, capable of running a deficit no matter how much 
tuition is collection, but one where every stakeholder group feels 
aggrieved; students feel that they pay too much in tuition and have 
too little say in their education, faculty believe that their rights are 
being chipped away by no-nothing administrators and the 
communities feel disrespected and cheated
13
Interpreting the Shift
¨ A Public Relations Move : Populists on both sides of the political divide have 
found that the public buys into their framing as corporations as self -interested 
entities that don’t care about employees, customers or society, with their 
focus on shareholders being the reason. CEOs have noticed, and the Business 
Roundtable’s statement may be just a restatement of constrained 
corporatism.
¨ A Return to the Past :  The cynic in you may lead you to conclude that what the 
CEOs in the roundtable would like to see is a return to the good old days of 
managerial  corporatism, where they could rule their companies with little 
push back, and that this push for stakeholder interests is a diversionary tactic.
¨ The Conspiratorial Twist : The CEOs who are in the Roundtable represent the 
status quo, large and established companies, many of which find their 
business models being disrupted by young, start -ups. One way to preempt 
disruption is to increase the costs of doing business and having to take care of 
all stakeholders does that, but it is a cost that established companies may be 
able to bear better right now than their disruptive competitors.
14
Conclusion
¨ The wrong choice: This is a trying time to be a corporate CEO, with people 
demanding that you cure society’s ills and the economy’s problems, but 
you cannot win this battle by giving up on the focus on shareholder wealth
and replacing it with an ill-thought through and potentially destructive 
objective of stakeholder wealth maximization. 
¨ A better one? A healthier discussion would be centered 
¤ On creating more transparency about how corporations treat different stakeholder 
groups and
¤ Linking that information with how companies get valued in the market.  
I think we are making strides on the first, with better information disclosure from 
companies and CSR measures, and I hope to help on the second front by 
connecting these disclosures to intrinsic value. 
¨ The end game: If we want companies to behave better in their 
interactions with society, customers and employees, we have to make it in 
their financial best interests to do so, buying products and services from 
companies that treat stakeholders better and paying higher prices for 
their shares.
