Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr22/session5slides.pdf

61
2. ESG and Returns: Mixed findings
¨ Invest in bad companies: A comparisonof two Vanguard Index funds, the Vice fund 
(invested in tobacco, gambling, and defense companies) and the FTSE Social Index fund 
(invested in companies screened for good corporate behavior on multiple dimensions) 
and note that a dollar invested in the former in August 2002 would have been worth 
almost 20% more by 2015 than a dollar invested in the latter .
¨ Invest in good companies: There are some studies that find that good companies earn 
higher returns, but the outperformance is more due to factor and industry tilts than to 
social responsiveness. Some of the strongest links between returns and ESG come from 
the governance portion, which, as we noted earlier, is ironic, because the essence of 
governance, at least as measured in most of these studies, is fealty to shareholder 
rights, which is at odds with the current ESG framework that pushes for a stakeholder 
perspective.
¨ ESG has no effect: Splitting the difference, there are other studies that find little or no 
differences in returns between good and bad companies. In fact, studies that more 
broadly look at factors that have driven stock returns for the last few decades find that 
much of the positive payoff attributed to ESG comes from its correlation with 
momentum and growth.
62
3. ESG and Society
¨There are some who argue that even if ESG is bad for 
companies and investors, it is good for society, because 
companies will treat their customers and employees 
better, while catering to their local communities.
¨There are three fundamental flaws:
¤Greenwashing: ESG allows companies to sound good, while not 
doing good, and that it will allow for posturing and public 
relation ploys that do little to advance public good. 
¤Outsourcing goodness: It makes the CEOs the arbiters of 
goodness and badness.
¤Behind the curtain: Pressuring companies to invest in the good 
and divest themselves or avoid the bad may only push bad 
behavior to less observable and monitored parts of the 
economy.
63
III. Maximize Stock Price, subject to ..
Aswath Damodaran
63
¨The strength of the stock price maximization objective 
function is its internal self correction mechanism. Excesses on 
any of the linkages lead, if unregulated, to counter actions 
which reduce or eliminate these excesses
¨In the context of our discussion,
¤managers taking advantage of stockholders has led to a much more 
active market for corporate control.
¤stockholders taking advantage of bondholders has led to bondholders 
protecting themselves at the time of the issue.
¤firms revealing incorrect or delayed information to markets has led to 
markets becoming more “skeptical”and “punitive”
¤firms creating social costs has led to more regulations, as well as 
investor and customer backlashes.
64
The Stockholder Backlash 
Aswath Damodaran
64
¨Activist Institutional investors have become much more 
active in monitoring companies that they invest in and 
demanding changes in the way in which business is done. 
They have been joined by private equity firms like KKR and 
Blackstone.
¨Activist individualslike Carl Icahn specialize in taking large 
positions in companies which they feel need to change their 
ways (Blockbuster, Time Warner, Motorola & Apple) and push 
for change.
¨Vocal stockholders, armed with more information and new 
powers: At annual meetings, stockholders have taken to 
expressing their displeasure with incumbent management by 
voting against their compensation contracts or their board of 
directors
65
The Hostile Acquisition Threat
Aswath Damodaran
65
¨The typical target firm in a hostile takeover has
¤a return on equity almost 5% lower than its peer group
¤had a stock that has significantly under performed the peer 
group over the previous 2 years
¤has managers who hold little or no stock in the firm
¨In other words, the best defense against a hostile 
takeover is to run your firm well and earn good returns 
for your stockholders
¨Conversely, when you do not allow hostile takeovers, this 
is the firm that you are most likely protecting (and not a 
well run or well managed firm)
66
In response, boards are becoming more 
independent…
Aswath Damodaran
66
¨Boards have become smaller over time. The median size of a board 
of directors has decreased from 16 to 20 in the 1970s to between 9 
and 11 in 1998. The smaller boards are less unwieldy and more 
effective than the larger boards.
¨There are fewer insiders on the board. In contrast to the 6 or more 
insiders that many boards had in the 1970s, only two directors in 
most boards in 1998 were insiders. 
¨Directors are increasingly compensated with stock and options in 
the company, instead of cash. In 1973, only 4% of directors 
received compensation in the form of stock or options, whereas 
78% did so in 1998. 
¨More directors are identified and selected by a nominating 
committee rather than being chosen by the CEO of the firm. In 
1998, 75% of boards had nominating committees; the comparable 
statistic in 1973 was 2%.
67
Disney: Eisner’s rise & fall from grace
¨ In his early years at Disney, Michael Eisner brought about long-delayed changes in 
the company and put it on the path to being an entertainment giant that it is 
today. His success allowed him to consolidate power and the boards that he 
created were increasingly captive ones (see the 1997 board).
¨ In 1996, Eisner spearheaded the push to buy ABC and the board rubberstamped 
his decision, as they had with other major decisions. In the years following, the 
company ran into problems both on its ABC acquisition and on its other 
operations and stockholders started to get restive, especially as the stock price 
halved between 1998 and 2002. 
¨ In 2003, Roy Disney and Stanley Gold resigned from the Disney board, arguing 
against Eisner’s autocratic style. 
¨ In  early 2004, Comcast made a hostile bid for Disney and later in the year, 43% of 
Disney shareholders withheld their votes for Eisner’s reelection to the board of 
directors. Following that vote, the board of directors at Disney voted unanimously 
to elect George Mitchell as the Chair of the board, replacing Eisner, who vowed to 
stay on as CEO.
Aswath Damodaran
68
Eisner’s concession: Disney’s Board in 2003
Aswath Damodaran
68
Board Members Occupation
Reveta Bowers Head of school for the Center for Early Education,
John Bryson CEO and Chairman of Con Edison
Roy Disney Head of Disney Animation
Michael Eisner CEO of Disney
Judith Estrin CEO of Packet Design (an internet company)
Stanley Gold CEO of Shamrock Holdings
Robert Iger Chief Operating Officer, Disney
Monica Lozano Chief Operation Officer, La Opinion (Spanish newspaper)
George Mitchell Chairman of law firm (Verner, Liipfert, et al.)
Thomas S. Murphy Ex-CEO, Capital Cities ABC
Leo O’Donovan Professor of Theology, Georgetown University
Sidney Poitier Actor, Writer and Director
Robert A.M. Stern Senior Partner of Robert A.M. Stern Architects of New York
Andrea L. Van de KampChairman of Sotheby's West Coast
Raymond L. Watson Chairman of Irvine Company (a real estate corporation)
Gary L. Wilson Chairman of the board, Northwest Airlines.
69
Changes in corporate governance at Disney
Aswath Damodaran
69
1. Required at least two executive sessions of the board, without the CEO 
or other members of management present, each year . 
2. Created the position of non-management presiding director, and 
appointed Senator George Mitchell to lead those executive sessions and 
assist in setting the work agenda of the board. 
3. Adopted a new and more rigorous definition of director independence. 
4. Required that a substantial majority of the board be comprised of 
directors meeting the new independence standards. 
5. Provided for a reduction in committee size and the rotation of 
committeeand chairmanship assignments among independent 
directors. 
6. Added new provisions for management succession planningand 
evaluations of both management and board performance
7. Provided for enhanced continuing education and training for board 
members.
70
Eisner’s exit… and a new age dawns? Disney’s board 
in 2008
Aswath Damodaran
70
71
But as a CEO’s tenure lengthens, does 
corporate governance suffer?
¨In 2011, Igerannounced his intent to step down as 
CEO in 2015 to allow a successor to be groomed.  
¨The board voted reinstate Igeras chair of the board 
in 2011, reversing a decision made to separate the 
CEO and Chair positions after the Eisner years. 
¨There were signs of restiveness among Disney’s 
stockholders, especially those interested in 
corporate governance. Activist investors (CalSTRS) 
started making noise and  Institutional Shareholder 
Services (ISS), which gauges corporate governance at 
companies, raised red flags about compensation and 
board monitoring at Disney. 
Aswath Damodaran
72
Iger’snon-exit, the domino effect and a 
resolution?
¨In 2015 but Disney’s board convinced Igerto stay on as 
CEO for an extra year, for the “the good of the company”. 
¤In 2016, Thomas Staggs who was considered heir apparent to 
Igerleft Disney. Others who were considered potential CEOs also 
left.
¤In 2017, Disney acquired Fox and announced that Iger’sterm 
would be extended to 2019 (and perhaps beyond) because his 
stewardship was essential for the merger to work.
¨In February 2020, Igerstepped down as CEO (but stayed 
on as Exec Chair until Dec 2021), and Bob Chapek, head 
of Disney Theme Parks, took his place. Disney’s stock 
price dropped about 8% in the immediate aftermath.
Aswath Damodaran
72
73
A Life Cycle View of CEOs
74
The Compressed Tech Life Cycle
Aswath Damodaran
74
75
The Bondholders’Defense Against 
Stockholder Excesses
Aswath Damodaran
75
¨More restrictive covenants on investment, financing and dividend 
policy have been incorporated into both private lending 
agreements and into bond issues, to prevent future “Nabiscos”.
¨New types of bonds have been created to explicitly protect 
bondholders against sudden increases in leverage or other actions 
that increase lender risk substantially. Two examples of such bonds
¤Puttable Bonds, where the bondholder can put the bond back to the firm 
and get face value, if the firm takes actions that hurt bondholders
¤Ratings Sensitive Notes, where the interest rate on the notes adjusts to 
that appropriate for the rating of the firm
¨More hybrid bonds (with an equity component, usually in the form 
of a conversion option or warrant) have been used. This allows 
bondholders to become equity investors, if they feel it is in their 
best interests to do so.
76
The Financial Market Response
Aswath Damodaran
76
¨While analysts are more likely still to issue buy rather 
than sell recommendations, the payoff to uncovering 
negative news about a firm is large enough that such 
news is eagerly sought and quickly revealed (at least to a 
limited group of investors). 
¨As investor access to information improves, it is 
becoming much more difficult for firms to control when 
and how information gets out to markets.
¨As option trading has become more common, it has 
become much easier to trade on bad news. In the 
process, it is revealed to the rest of the market.
¨When firms mislead markets, the punishment is not only 
quick but it is savage.
77
The Societal Response
Aswath Damodaran
77
¨Iffirmsconsistentlyfloutsocietalnormsandcreate
largesocialcosts,thegovernmentalresponse
(especiallyinademocracy)isforlawsand
regulationstobepassedagainstsuchbehavior.
¨Forfirmscateringtoamoresociallyconscious
clientele,thefailuretomeetsocietalnorms(evenif
itislegal)canleadtolossofbusinessandvalue.
¨Finally,investorsmaychoosenottoinvestinstocks
offirmsthattheyviewassociallyirresponsible.
78
The Self-Correction?
Aswath Damodaran
78
STOCKHOLDERS
Managers of poorly 
run firms are put
on notice.
1. More activist
investors
2. Hostile takeovers
BONDHOLDERS
Protect themselves
1. Covenants
2. New Types
FINANCIAL MARKETS
SOCIETYManagers
Firms are
punished
for misleading
markets
Investors and
analysts become
more skeptical
Corporate Good Citizen Constraints
1. More laws
2. Investor/Customer Backlash
79
Constrained Corporatism
Aswath Damodaran
79
80
The Modified Objective Function
Aswath Damodaran
80
¨For publicly traded firms in reasonably efficient markets, 
where bondholders (lenders) are protected:
¤Maximize Stock Price: This will also maximize firm value
¨For publicly traded firms in inefficient markets, where 
bondholders are protected:
¤Maximize stockholder wealth: This will also maximize firm value, 
but might not maximize the stock price
¨For publicly traded firms in inefficient markets, where 
bondholders are not fully protected
¤Maximize firm value, though stockholder wealth and stock 
prices may not be maximized at the same point.
¨For private firms, maximize stockholder wealth (if 
lenders are protected) or firm value (if they are not)
THE INVESTMENT PRINCIPLE: 
RISK AND RETURN MODELS
“You cannot swing upon a rope that is attached only 
to your own belt.”
Aswath Damodaran 81
82
First Principles
Aswath Damodaran
82
83
The notion of a benchmark 
Aswath Damodaran
83
¨Since financial resources are finite, there is a hurdle that 
projects have tocross before being deemed acceptable. 
This hurdle should be higher for riskier projects than for 
safer projects.
¨A simple representation of the hurdle rate is as follows:
Hurdle rate    = Riskless Rate + Risk Premium
¨The two basic questions that every risk and return model 
in finance tries to answer are:
¤How do you measure risk?
¤How do you translate this risk measure into a risk premium?
84
What is Risk?
Aswath Damodaran
84
¨Risk, in traditional terms, is viewed as a ‘negative’. 
Webster’s dictionary, for instance, defines risk as “exposing 
to danger or hazard”. The Chinese symbols for risk, 
reproduced below, give a much better description of risk
危机
¨The first symbol is the symbol for “danger”, while the second 
is the symbol for “opportunity”, making risk a mix of danger 
and opportunity. You cannot have one, without the other .
¨Risk is therefore neither good nor bad. It is just a fact of life. 
The question that businesses have toaddress is therefore not 
whether to avoid risk but how best to incorporate it into their 
decision making.
85
A good risk and return model should…
Aswath Damodaran
85
1. It should come up witha measure of risk that applies to all assets 
and not be asset-specific.
2. It should clearly delineate what types of risk are rewarded and 
what are not, andprovide a rationale for the delineation.
3. It should come up withstandardized risk measures, i.e., an 
investor presented with a risk measure for an individual asset 
should be able to draw conclusions about whether the asset is 
above-average or below-average risk.
4. It should translate the measure of risk into a rate of return that 
the investor should demand as compensation for bearing the risk.
5. It should work well not only at explaining past returns, but also in 
predicting future expected returns.
86
The Capital Asset Pricing Model
Aswath Damodaran
86
1. Uses variance of actual returns around an expected 
return as a measure of risk.
2. Specifies that a portion of variance can be diversified 
away, and that is only the non-diversifiable portion that 
is rewarded.
3. Measures the non-diversifiable risk with beta, which is 
standardized around one.
4. Translates beta into expected return -
Expected Return =  Riskfreerate + Beta * Risk Premium
5. Works as well as the next best alternative in most 
cases.
87
1. The Mean-Variance Framework
Aswath Damodaran
87
¨The variance on any investment measures the disparity 
between actual and expected returns. 
Expected Return
Low Variance Investment
High Variance Investment
88
How risky is Disney? A look at the past…
Aswath Damodaran
88
-25.00%
-20.00%
-15.00%
-10.00%
-5.00%
0.00%
5.00%
10.00%
15.00%
20.00%
25.00%
Oct-08
De c-0 8
Feb-09
Apr-09
Jun- 09
Aug-09
Oct-09
De c-0 9
Feb-10
Apr-10
Jun- 10
Aug-10
Oct-10
De c-1 0
Feb-11
Apr-11
Jun- 11
Aug-11
Oct-11
De c-1 1
Feb-12
Apr-12
Jun- 12
Aug-12
Oct-12
De c-1 2
Feb-13
Apr-13
Jun- 13
Aug-13
Returns on Disney -2008-2013 
Average monthly return = 1.65%
Average monthly standard deviation = 7.64%
Average annual return = 21.70%
Average annual standard deviation = 26.47%
89
Do you live in a mean-variance world?
Aswath Damodaran
89
¨Assume that you had to pick between two investments. They 
have the same expected return of 15% and the same 
standard deviation of 25%; however, investment A offers a 
very small possibility that you could quadruple your money, 
while investment B’s highest possible payoff is a 60% return. 
Would you
a. be indifferent between the two investments, since they have the 
same expected return and standard deviation?
b. prefer investment A, because of the possibility of a high payoff?
b. prefer investment B, because it is safer?
¨Would your answer change if you were not told that there is a 
small possibility that you could lose 100% of your money on 
investment A but that your worst casescenario with 
investment B is -50%?
90
2. The Importance of Diversification: Risk Types
Aswath Damodaran
90
Actions/Risk that 
affect only one 
firm
Actions/Risk that 
affect all investments
Firm-specific Market
Projects may
do better or
worse than
expected
Competition
may be stronger
or weaker than
anticipated
Entire Sector
may be affected
by action
Exchange rate
and Political
risk
Interest rate,
Inflation & 
news about 
economy
Figure 3.5: A Break Down of Risk
Affects few
firms
Affects many
firms
Firm can 
reduce by
Investing in lots 
of projects
Acquiring 
competitors
Diversifying 
across sectors
Diversifying 
across countries
Cannot affect
Investors 
can 
mitigate by
Diversifying across domestic stocks Diversifying across 
asset classes 
Diversifying globally
91
Why diversification reduces/eliminates 
firm specific risk
Aswath Damodaran
91
¨Firm-specific risk can be reduced, if not eliminated, by 
increasing the  number of investments in your portfolio
(i.e., by being diversified). Market-wide risk cannot. This 
can be justified on either economic or statistical 
grounds.
¨On economic grounds, diversifying and holding a larger 
portfolio eliminates firm-specific risk for two reasons-
a. Each investment is a much smaller percentage of the portfolio, 
muting the effect (positive or negative) on the overall 
portfolio.
b. Firm-specific actions can be either positive or negative. In a 
large portfolio, it is argued, these effects will average out to 
zero. (For every firm, where something bad happens, there will 
be some other firm, where something good happens.)
92
The Role of the Marginal Investor
Aswath Damodaran
92
¨The marginal investor in a firm is the investor who is 
most likely to be the buyer or seller on the next trade 
and to influence the stock price. 
¨Generally speaking, themarginal investor in a stock has 
toown a lot of stock and alsotrade that stock on a 
regular basis.
¨Since trading is required, the largest investor may not be 
the marginal investor, especially if he or she is a 
founder/manager of the firm (Larry Ellison at Oracle, 
Mark Zuckerbergat Facebook)
¨In all risk and return models in finance, we assume that 
the marginal investor is well diversified.
101
Application Test: Who is the marginal investor in 
your firm?
Aswath Damodaran
101
¨You can get information on insider and institutional 
holdings in your firm from:
¤http://finance.yahoo.com/
¤Enter your company’s symbol and choose profile.
¨Looking at the breakdown of stockholders in your 
firm, consider whether the marginal investor is
¤An institutional investor 
¤An individual investor
¤An insider
