Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2024.pdf

DATA UPDATE 3 FOR 2024: A 
RULE-BREAKING YEAR FOR 
INTEREST RATES!
Let’s not talk about the Fed!
2
Setting the table..
¨In my last post, I looked at equities in 2023, and argued that 
while they did well during 2023, the returns were uneven, with 
a few big winning companies and sectors and a significant 
number of companies not partaking in the recovery. 
¨In this post, I look at interest rates, both in the government 
and corporate markets, and note that while there was little 
change in levels, especially at the long end of the maturity 
spectrum, that lack of change called into question 
conventional market wisdom about interest rates.
¨in particular, thenotions that the Fed sets interest rates and 
that an inverted yield curve is a surefire predictor of a 
recession. As we start 2024, the interest rate prognosticators 
who misread the bond markets so badly in 2023 are back to 
making their 2024 forecasts, without a hint of self-reflection or 
doubt.
3
Government Bond Rates in 2023: US 
Treasuries…
4
The Fed Effect: Raising Rates?
5
Leader or Follower?
6
The Real Drivers of Interest Rates…
7
Yield Curves in 2022 and 2023…
8
Government Bond Rates, in other 
currencies..
9
And Riskfree Rates…
10
Corporate Borrowing: The Cost of 
Borrowing
¨As riskfree rates fluctuate, they affect the rates at which private 
businesses can borrow money. Since no company or business can print 
money to pay off its debt, there is always default risk, when you lend to a 
company, and to protect yourself as a lender, it behooves you to charge a 
default or creditspread to cover that risk:
¤Cost of borrowing for a company = Risk free Rate + Default Spread
¨The question, when faced with estimating the cost of debt or borrowing 
for a company, is working out what that spread should be for the 
company in question. 
¨Many US companies have their default risk assessed by ratings agencies 
(Moody's, S&P , Fitch), and this practice is spreading to other markets as 
well. The bond rating for a company then becomes a proxy for its default 
risk, and the default spread then becomes the typical spread that 
investors are charging for bonds with that rating.
11
Default Spreads in 2022 and 2023…
12
The Price of Risk: Bond and Equity Markets
13
The Bottom Line!
¨If there are lessons that can be learned from interest 
rate movements in 2022 and 2023, it is that 
notwithstanding all ofthe happy talk of the Fed cutting 
rates in the year to come, it is inflation that will again 
determine how interest rates, especially at the longer 
maturities, move in 2024.
¤If inflation continues its downward path, it is likely that we will 
see longer-term rates drift downwards, though it would have to 
be accompanied by significant weakening in the economy for 
rates to approach levels that we became used to, during the last 
decade. 
¤If inflation persists or rises, interest rates will rise, no matter 
what the Fed does.
