Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/feddidit.pdf

“THE	  FED	  DID	  IT,	  WITH	  QE,	  IN	  
THE	  BOND	  MARKET”	  
Myths	  about	  central	  banks	  &	  why	  we	  believe	  them..
2
The	  answer	  to	  the	  Market	  game	  of	  Clue!
3
Four	  myths	  about	  the	  Fed	  (and	  central	  
banks)	  
1.  The	  Fed	  sets	  interest	  rates	  
2.  The	  Fed	  has	  kept	  interest	  rates	  low	  for	  the	  last	  six	  
years.	  
3.  Low	  interest	  rates	  are	  the	  primary	  reason	  for	  
stocks	  doing	  well	  over	  this	  period.	  
4.  The	  biggest	  danger	  to	  the	  Fed	  is	  that	  the	  market	  
will	  react	  badly	  to	  a	  change	  in	  its	  interest	  rate	  
policy.
4
1.	  The	  only	  interest	  rate	  that	  the	  Fed	  sets	  
is	  the	  Fed	  Funds	  rate..	  
¨  Given	  what	  we	  read	  about	  the	  Fed	  and	  its	  role	  in	  seWng	  
interest	  rates,	  it	  is	  no	  surprise	  that	  there	  are	  some	  who	  
believe	  that	  the	  Fed	  explicitly	  or	  implicitly	  sets	  every	  interest	  
rate	  that	  we	  observe	  in	  the	  market	  place.	  
¨  In	  reality,	  the	  Fed	  sets	  only	  one	  rate,	  the	  rate	  at	  which	  banks	  
can	  borrow	  at	  the	  Fed	  window,	  and	  has	  direct	  inﬂuence	  on	  
only	  one	  other	  rate,	  the	  Fed	  Funds	  rate,	  the	  rate	  at	  which	  
banks	  borrow	  and	  lend	  over	  night	  in	  the	  Fed	  Funds	  market.	  
¨  The	  Fed	  funds	  rate	  has	  its	  strongest	  connecYon	  to	  short	  term	  
market	  interest	  rates	  but	  even	  that	  connecYon	  depends	  on	  
how	  the	  market	  views	  Fed	  moves.	  The	  connecYon	  to	  longer	  
term	  rates	  is	  much	  weaker	  and	  rests	  more	  on	  fundamentals.
5
2.	  The	  real	  reason	  interest	  rates	  have	  been 	  
low	  over	  the	  last	  few	  years..
6
3a.	  The	  real	  reason	  for	  the	  bull	  market	  is	  
not	  lower	  expected	  returns	  on	  stocks
7
3b.	  It	  is	  the	  cash	  ﬂows!
8
3c.	  And	  the	  biggest	  danger	  to	  stocks	  is..
9
4.	  The	  Fed’s	  biggest	  fears	  should	  be..	  
The	  convenYonal	  wisdom	  is	  that	  the	  Fed’s	  biggest	  fear, 	  
if	  it	  changes	  interest	  rate	  policy,	  is	  that	  bond	  and	  stock	  
markets	  will	  react	  badly.	  That	  may	  very	  wll	  be	  so,	  but	  I	  
think	  that	  what	  would	  be	  more	  damaging	  to	  the	  Fed	  is	  
one	  of	  the	  following:	  
¨  That	  it	  changes	  interest	  rate	  policy	  and	  markets	  
ignore	  it;	  interest	  rates	  don’t	  surge	  and	  stock	  prices	  
don’t	  plummet.	  
¨  That	  it	  does	  not	  interest	  rate	  policy	  and	  interest	  
rates	  go	  up	  anyway.
10
The	  Fed	  has	  power..
11
But	  that	  power	  stems	  from	  its	  credibility..	  
¨  The	  Fed’s	  power	  stems	  from	  the	  percepYon	  that	  its	  acts	  
reﬂect	  what	  it	  sees	  in	  the	  economy	  (perhaps	  with	  a	  li]le	  
more	  informaYon	  than	  the	  rest	  of	  us)	  and	  that	  it	  will	  move	  
quickly	  if	  it	  sees	  inﬂaYon	  picking	  up.	  
¨  For	  this	  power	  to	  persist,	  the	  Fed	  has	  to	  be	  viewed	  as	  
independent	  and	  consistent.
12
So,	  what’s	  coming?	  
¨  The	  three	  big	  quesYons	  that	  hang	  over	  the	  market	  
are:	  
1.  Will	  the	  Fed	  change	  interest	  rate	  policy	  change	  or	  not?	  	  
2.  Will	  that	  policy	  change	  aﬀect	  interest	  rates	  or	  not?	  
3.  Will	  the	  interest	  rate	  change,	  if	  it	  occurs,	  aﬀect	  stock	  
prices	  or	  not?	  
¨  As	  an	  investor,	  I	  want	  the	  Fed	  circus	  to	  end.	  
Obsessing	  on	  the	  Fed	  and	  what	  it	  will	  do	  has	  led	  us	  
to	  ignore	  the	  fundamentals	  that	  drive	  the	  market	  
and	  become	  an	  easy	  excuse	  for	  bad	  investment	  
choices.	  It	  is	  Yme	  for	  all	  of	  us	  to	  move	  on.
