Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TaleofTwoMarkets.pdf

A	TALE	OF	TWO	MARKETS:	RISK	
ON	OR	RISK	OFF?
It	was	the	best	of	time,	it	was	the	worst	of	times
2
A	Tale	of	Two	Cities	(Markets)
¨ "It	was	the	best	of	times,	it	was	the	worst	of	times,	it	was	the	age	
of	wisdom,	it	was	the	age	of	foolishness,	it	was	the	epoch	of	belief,	
it	was	the	epoch	of	incredulity,	it	was	the	season	of	Light,	it	was	the	
season	of	Darkness,	it	was	the	spring	of	hope,	it	was	the	winter	of	
despair,	we	had	everything	before	us,	we	had	nothing	before	us,	
we	were	all	going	direct	to	Heaven,	we	were	all	going	direct	the	
other	way.”
¨ While	disagreement	among	market	participants	has	always	been	a	
feature	of	markets,	seldom	has	there	been	such	a	divide	between	
those	who	believe	that	we	are	on	the	verge	of	a	massive	correction	
and	those	who	equally	vehemently	feel	that	this	is	the	cusp	of	a	
new	bull	market,	and	between	those	who	see	unprecedented	
economic	and	policy	uncertainty	and	market	indicators	that	
suggest	the	exact	opposite.
3
Equity	Risk:	The	Divergence
¨ Risk	off:	Market	Indicators	of	risk	including	the	
Volatility	indices,	bond	yield	volatility	and	default	
spreads	are	all	down	significantly	since	November	
2016.
¨ Risk	on:	Measures	of	economic	policy	uncertainty	
have	spiked	since	November	2016.
4
Stock	Market	Volatility
5
Economic	Policy	Uncertainty
6
Fund	Flow
¨ The	ultimate	measure	of	how	comfortable	investors	
feel	about	risk	is	whether	they	are	putting	money	
into	stocks	or	taking	them	out	and	fund	flows	have	
historically	been	a	good	measure	of	that	comfort.	
¨ Put	simply,	if	investors	are	wary	and	risk	averse	
about	an	asset	class	or	market,	you	should	expect	to	
see	money	flow	out	of	that	market	and	if	they	are	
sanguine,	you	should	see	money	flow	in.
7
Funds	in?
8
Funds	out?
¨ The	perennial	market	bears	have	become	even	more	
bearish,	with	concerns	about	macroeconomic	risk	
augmenting	their	long-standing	concerns	about	stocks	
trading	at	high	PE	ratios.	
¨ There	are	big	name	investors	who	are	cautioning	that	a	
market	correction	is	around	the	corner,	with	Jeff	
Gundlach being	the	latest	to	argue	that	it	is time	to	sell	
the	S&amp;P	500	and	buy	emerging	market	stocks.	
¨ There	is	some	evidence	that	money	is	leaving	US	stocks,	
with	the	Wall	Street	Journal	reporting	that	money	going	
into	US	stocks	is	at	a	9-year	low,	while	inflows	into	
European	stocks	hit	a	five-year	high.
9
Confidence	up,	Spending	meh!
¨ Ultimately,	risk	does	not	come	from	market	
perceptions	or	newsletters	but	is	reflected	in	
consumer	and	business	mood	and	behavior .
¨ The	mood	indicators	(consumer	and	business	
confidence)	are	flashing	green.
¨ The	spending	indicators	(consumer	spending	and	
business	investment)	are	not	showing	the	same	
robust	growth.
10
Consumer	Confidence
11
Consumer	Spending
12
Explaining	the	Divergence
¨ Markets	have	become	inured	to	crises:	Investors,	after	a	
decade	of	market	crisis	after	market	crisis,	have	learned	
to	roll	with	the	punches	and	ignore	experts	who	predict	
doom.
¨ Disagreement	about	economic	policy	changes/effects:	It	
is	also	possible	that	economic	pundits	and	investors	are	
parting	ways	on	both	the	likelihood	of	economic	policy	
shocks	and/or	the	consequences.	
¨ Politics	first,	analysis	later:	It	is	no	secret	that	we	live	in	
partisan	times,	and	investing	increasingly	reflects	
political	partisanship.
13
My	tie	breaker:	The	Implied	ERP	on	June	1,	
2017
14
In	perspective..
