Source: http://people.stern.nyu.edu/adamodar/pdfiles/cfexams/CfQuiz1aSpr19.pdf

Spring 2019 Name: 
 1 
Quiz 1: Corporate Finance 
Answer all questions and show necessary work. Please be brief. This is an open books, 
open notes exam.  
1. Corporate Governance/Risk Basics section.  
Each of the following multiple-choice questions is worth ½ point. Please pick 
only one answer for each question. 
a. In much of Asia and Latin America, companies that are parts of family groups 
comprise a large percentage of publicly traded companies. From a corporate 
governance standpoint, which of the following would concern you the most at 
these companies? 
i. They will not borrow enough money to fund operations 
ii. They will be too aggressive, in seeking out growth and investments. 
iii. They will make decisions that are in the best interests of the family 
group, rather than in the best interests of the company 
iv. They will make decisions that are in the best interests of the company, 
rather than in the best interests of the family group. 
v. They will pay out too much in dividends. 
b. There is a heated debate about whether companies shou ld be banned from 
buying back their own stock. Assuming that you want to restrict buybacks, 
which of the following groups of companies would you target for the ban? 
i. Over levered (too much debt) firms, with few good investment 
opportunities. 
ii. Under levered (too little debt)  firms, with few good investment 
opportunities. 
iii. Over levered (too much debt) firms, with many good investment 
opportunities. 
iv. Under levered (too little debt) firms, with many good investment 
opportunities. 
c. In an efficient market, assume that a firm that is perceived to have great 
growth opportunities announces that it will start paying dividends for the 
first time. What effect will this announcement have on stock prices? 
i. To rise. 
ii. To fall. 
iii. To stay unchanged. 
d. If you are a diversified investor in Facebook, which of the following types of 
risk would you include in your discount rate? 
i. The risk that new privacy laws will restrict data gathering and access 
ii. The risk that users will find a different social media platform to spend 
their time on. 
iii. The risk that a global economic slowdown will affect how much 
companies spend on advertising 
iv. The risk that Mark Zuckerberg will stay on as CEO 
v. The risk that Mark Zuckerberg will leave as CEO
Spring 2019 Name: 
 2 
2. Tirage Inc. is a US-based consumer product company that is considering 
expanding into Southeast Asia, expecting to get 60% of its revenues in Thailand 
and 40% in Vietnam. You have collected the following information on the two 
countries: 
  
10-year Govt 
Bond Rate (in 
local currency) 
Sovereign 
CDS Spread 
s (Equity)/ s (Govt 
Bond) 
Thailand 4.50% (Baht) 1.50% 1.5 
Vietnam 8.50% (Dong) 4.50% 1.2 
The US treasury bond rate is 3%, the US equity risk premium is 6% and Tirage 
has a beta of 1.20. Estimate the cost of equity in US dollars that Tirage should 
use for its Southeast Asian expansion.
Spring 2019 Name: 
 3 
3. You are trying to estimate the levered beta for Zulu Streaming, a niche movie 
streaming business that focuses on just animated and children’s movies. It has 
increasingly expanded its content arm, making original content for its streaming 
subscribers, and its current business mix with estimated values in millions is 
listed below:  
  Estimated Value (in $ millions) Unlevered Beta 
Movies (Content) 500 1.2 
Streaming (Subscription) 1500 0.8 
The company is trading at its fair value, has no cash and $800 million in debt 
outstanding. The marginal tax rate is 25%. 
a. Estimate the levered beta for the company.    (2 points)
Spring 2019 Name: 
 4 
b. Now assume that Zulu Streaming acquires an animated movie company to 
augment its content business. If the acquisition was at fair value, and was funded 
by issuing $100 million in new shares and $400 million in new debt, estimate the 
new levered beta for Zulu Streaming, after the acquisition. (You can assume that 
the animated movie company is in the content business).
