Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaDilution.pdf

DILUTION AND OPTIONS: THE 
MYSTERY OF SHARE COUNT 
Aswath Damodaran
2
Share Count Basics
Aswath 
Damodaran
2
¨ Getting from the value of equity for a company to 
value per share, in old-time DCF , is obtained by 
dividing the aggregate value by the number of 
shares outstanding.
¤ Value per share = Aggregate Value of Equity/ Number of 
Shares outstanding
¨ This works only if there are no other equity claims 
on the firm (options) and if all shares have equal 
claims (on voting and cash flows).
3
Three Problems
Aswath 
Damodaran
3
1. Expected Dilution: When companies need to access capital markets in 
future years, to cover reinvestment and operating needs. To the extent 
that some or all of this new capital will come from new share issuances, 
the share count at these companies can be expected to climb over time. 
2. Share based compensation: There are three issues that affect valuation. 
The first is whether the expense associated with stock based 
compensation should be added back to arrive at cash flows, since it is a 
non-cash expense. The second is how to adjust the value per share 
today for the restricted shares and options that have already been 
granted. Third, you have to decide how to adjust the value per share 
today for future grants of options or shares.
3. Shares with different rights (voting and dividend): If a company has 
voting and non-voting shares, and you believe that voting shares have 
more value than non-voting shares, the value per share will be different 
for different classes.
4
1. Expected Dilution
Aswath Damodaran
4
¨ An investor or analyst dealing with publicly traded companies in 
the 1980s generally valued more mature companies, since going 
public was considered an option only for those companies that had 
reached a stage in their life cycle, where profits were positive (or 
close) and continued access to capital markets was not a 
prerequisite for survival. 
¨ In the 1990s, with the dot com boom, we saw the change in the 
public listing paradigm, with many young companies listing 
themselves on public markets, based upon promise and potential, 
rather than profits or established business models.  That pattern of 
listing early has continued, and there are far more young 
companies listed in markets today. 
¨ An investor who avoids these companies just because they do not 
fit old metrics or models is likely to find large segments of the 
market to be out of his or her reach.
5
Consequences
Aswath Damodaran
5
1. Many young companies lose money, as they focus their 
attention on building businesses and acquiring clientele. 
2. Growth requires reinvestment, in plant and equipment, if 
you are a manufacturing company, or in technology and 
R&D, if you are a technology company. 
¨ As a consequence, in a discounted cash flow valuation, you 
can expect to see negative expected cash flows, at least for 
the first few years of your forecast period. 
¨ To survive these years and make it to positive earnings and 
cash flows, the company will have to raise fresh capital, and 
given its lack of earnings, that capital will generally take the 
form of new equity, i.e., expected dilution, which, in turn, will 
affect value per share.
6
The Right Response
¨ If you are doing a discounted cash flow valuation, the 
right response to the expected dilution is to do nothing. 
¨ The aggregate value of equity that you compute today 
includes the present value of expected cash flows, 
including the negative cash flows in the up front years. 
¤ The latter will reduce the present value (value of operating 
assets), and that reduction captures the dilution effect. 
¤ You can divide the value of equity by the number of share 
outstanding today, and you will have already incorporated 
dilution.
7
Tesla: Dilution Effect
8
An Alternative Approach
9
But never do this…
¨ Make a choice: You can either incorporate the present 
value of the negative cash flows into the value of 
operating assets today and use the current share count, 
in estimating value per share, or you can try to forecast 
expected future share issuances and divide the present 
value of only positive cash flows by the enhanced share 
count to get to value per share.
¨ But don’t double count: You cannot do both, because 
you are then reducing value per share twice for the same 
phenomenon, once by discounting the negative cash 
flows and including them in value and then again by 
increasing the share count for the shares issued to cover 
those negative cash flows.
10
2. Share Based Compensation
¨ The use of share based compensation exploded in the 
1990s due to two reasons. 
¤ The first was an ill-conceived attempt by the US Congress to put 
a cap on management compensation, while not counting 
options granted as part of that compensation. 
¤ The second was the dot com boom, where you had hundreds of 
young companies that had sky high valuations but no earnings 
or cash flows; these companies used options to attract and keep 
employees. 
¨ Aiding and abetting these firm, in this process were the 
accountants, who chose not to treat these option grants 
as expensed at the time they were granted, and thus 
allowed companies to report much higher income than 
they were truly earning.
11
Consequences
¨ Drag on value per share: The first was the drag on per-
share value created by past option and share grants to 
employees, with options, in particular, creating trouble, 
since they could create dilution, if share prices went up, 
but could be worthless, if share prices dropped. 
¨ Future grants? The second was the question of how to 
factor in expected option and share grants in the future, 
since the value of these grants would be affected by 
expected future share prices. As with the dilution 
question, analysts faced a circular reasoning problem, 
where to value a share today, you had to make forecasts 
of the value per share in future years.
12
The Right Response
¨ Past option and share grants: In an intrinsic valuation, you 
should value these options first (using an option pricing 
model) and net the value out of the estimated value of 
equity, before dividing by the existing share count :
¤ SBC Adjusted Value per share = (DCF Value of Equity - Value of 
Employee Options)/ Share count today including restricted shares
¨ Future grants: To the extent that a company is expected to 
continue to compensate its employees with options or 
restricted shares in future years, the most logical way to deal 
with these grants is to treat them as expenses in future years, 
and reduce expected income and cash flows.
13
Tesla: SBC Magnitude
At the end of 2017, according to Tesla's 10K, thecompany 
had 10.88 million options outstanding, with a weighted 
average exercise price of $105.56 and a weighted average 
maturity of 5.30 years and 4.69 million restricted shares.
14
Tesla: Adjusting Value for Options & RSU
15
A Sloppy Alternative: The Treasury Stock 
Approach
¨ In the treasury stock approach, you value options at exercise 
value, and the value of equity per share in this approach can 
be written as follows:
¤ Treasury Stock Value per share = (DCF value of equity + Exercise Price * 
# Options outstanding) / (Share Count today + Options Outstanding)
¨ In the case of Tesla, using the exercise stock approach would 
yield the following value per share:
¤ Treasury Stock Value per share (Tesla) = ($32,124 + $105.56 * 10.88) / 
(169.76 + 10.88) = $184.19
¨ The analysts who use this approach often justify it by arguing 
that option pricing models can yield noisy estimates, but even 
the worst option pricing model will outperform one that 
assumes that options trade at exercise value.
16
But never this..
¨ Fully Diluted Shares: The first is to just adjust the share count for 
options outstanding and make no other changes. In this "fully diluted" 
approach, you are counting in the dilution that will arise from option 
exercise but ignoring the cash that will come into the firm from the 
exercise.
¤ Fully Diluted Value per share = DCF value of equity / (Share Count today + Options 
Outstanding)
¤ With Tesla, for instance, this approach would yield the following:
n Fully Diluted Value per share (Tesla) = $32,124/ (169.76 + 10.88) = $177.83
¨ Add back SBC: The second and even more indefensible practice is to add 
back share based compensation to earnings to get to adjusted earnings. 
The rationale that is offered for doing so is that share based 
compensation is a non-cash expense, a dangerous bending of logic, since 
it allows companies to use in-kind payments (shares, services) to evade 
the cash flow test. Carried into future forecasts, this will inflate future 
earnings and cash flows, pushing up estimated value.
17
3. Shares with Different Rights
¨ Founders and families who take their companies public have always 
wanted to have their cake and eat it too, and one way in which they have 
been able to do so is by creating different share classes, usually built 
around voting rights. 
¨ In the United States, shares with different voting rights were rare for 
much of the last century, primarily because the New York Stock Exchange, 
which was the preferred listing place for companies, did not allow them. 
¨ The tech boom of the 1990s changed the game, by making the NASDAQ, 
which had no restrictions on shares with different voting rights, an 
alternative destination, especially for large technology companies. 
¨ The floodgates on shares with different voting rights opened up with the 
Google listing in 2004, and the Google model, with shares with different 
voting rights, has become the default model for many of the tech 
companies that have gone public in the last decade.
18
Consequences
¨ Change will become difficult: The first is a corporate 
governance effect, since changing management 
becomes much more difficult, and that can affect 
how you value and view badly managed firms. 
¨ Units are not equal: The second is a unit problem, 
since a voting right share and a non-voting right 
share represent different equity claims and cannot 
be treated as having the same value. Thus, you can 
no longer divide the aggregate value of equity by the 
total number of shares outstanding.
19
The Right Response
¨ Build in difficulty of change into value: When valuing the firm, you have to 
incorporate the fact that changing management is going to be more 
difficult to do in your estimates. 
¨ Allocate unit value: You will have to make a judgment on how much of a 
premium you would expect the voting shares to trade at, relative to non-
voting shares, in one of two ways. 
¤ Use the 5-10% premium for voting shares, found in studies. 
¤ Use intrinsic valuation models to estimate the premium, which I describe in my 
paper on valuing control. 
¤ Value per non-voting share = Aggregate Value of Equity/ (# Non-Voting Shares + (1+ 
Voting Share Premium) # Voting Shares)
¨ For example, if the value of equity is $210 million, there are 50 million 
non-voting shares and 50 million voting shares and the voting share 
premium is 10%, your value per non-voting share will be:
¤ Value per non-voting share = 210/ (50+ 1.1*50) = $2.00/share
¤ Value per voting share = $2.00 (1.10) = $2.20/share
20
Final Thoughts
1. Aggregate versus Per-share numbers: Given how dilution and options 
can play havoc with share count, it is better to use aggregate than to 
use per share numbers, in valuation and in pricing.
2. When SBC is rampant, control for differences: If the use of restricted 
stock and options vary widely across sector, you need to control for 
those differences when comparing pricing in the sector .
3. Don't use SBC adjusted earnings: Adjusting earnings and EBITDA, by 
adding back stock based compensation, is an abomination, used by 
desperate companies and analysts to show you that they are making 
money, when they are not even close.
4. With forward multiples, check on and control for dilution: Analysts, 
when valuing young companies, often divide today’s market 
capitalization or enterprise value by expected revenues or EBITDA in the 
future.
