Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Statistics101/Slides/Session5.pdf

SESSION 5: DATA RELATIONSHIPS
Session 5
Correlations, Covariances and Regressions
2
Exploring data linkages/relationships
¨When you have two or more data series, you can check 
for linkages between the data, i.e., whether the data 
move together (positive co-movement), move inversely 
(negative co-movement) or are unrelated (no co-
movement).
¨If there is a linkage, you can explore further to see if
¤Time lags and leads: Changes in one data variable lead changes 
in the other
¤Correlation vs Causation: Changes in one data variable are 
”causing ” changes in the other 
¤Prediction: You can predict one variable, using the other 
variable.
3
A Scatter Plot
4
Correlation Coefficients
¨The correlation coefficient measures how two variables move 
together. The most widely used one is Pearson’s correlation 
coefficient:
¨The correlation coefficient lies between -1 and +1, with 
positive (negative) values indicating that the variables move 
together (inversely).
¤A correlation of zero indicates no co-movement. 
¤A correlation coefficient of 1 (plus or minus) indicates perfect co-movement
5
And Covariances..
¨The covariance, like correlation, is a measure of how two 
variables move together. 
¨Like the correlation, a positive covariance indicates that two 
variables move together, a zero covariance that there is no 
relationship between the two variables, and a negative 
covariance an indication that they move in opposite 
directions.
¨Unlike the correlation, the covariance is not bounded 
between 1 and -1, and will reflect the variable values.
6
Parting propositions..
¨Correlations can be spurious: If two variables are 
correlated, we are often tempted to create elaborate 
explanations for why. In many cases, that correlation can 
be spurious, with the two variables that are correlated 
both being driven by a third and often unseen variable.
¨Correlation ≠ Causation: Correlation is a statistical 
measure of how two variables move together . To get 
from correlation to causation, you need to do more work 
(including a hypothesis of why, and an experiment 
designed to show that causation).
¨Past versus Future: The data that we use to estimate 
correlation come from the past, and past correlation is 
not always a predictor of future correlation.
7
A Best Fit Line
The Intercept: In the 
scatter plot, the 
intercept is where the 
best-fit line crosses the 
Y axis. In simple terms, 
it is the value that the Y 
variable has when the 
X variable is zero.
The Best Fit Line: In an ordinary-least-squares 
(OLS) regression, the best fit line is the one that 
minimizes the squared distances from the line.
The Slope: The slope of the 
best fit line is also a 
measure of how changes in 
the X variable show up as 
changes in the Y variable. 
When there is no (positive, 
negative) relationship 
between the variables, the 
slope will be zero (positive, 
negative).
The R squared: This 
measures the how well 
the line fits the data. If 
the line is a perfect fit 
(every point is on it), the 
R squared will be one (as 
will the correlation).
8
More than two variables?
¨While a simple regression has one dependent variable and 
one independent variable, there are times where you may 
want to look at more than one independent variable in 
trying to explain a dependent variable.
¨You can extend the tools that you use for two variables to 
multiple variables, by:
¤Three dimensional plots, if you have two independent variables, or 
multiple scatter plots, if you have more than two.
¤Correlation matrices that look at correlations between all possible 
pairs of variables.
¤Multiple regressions, where you have one dependent variable and 
many independent variables.
9
A 3-dimensional Scatter Plot…
10
Independent Variables Plus
¨Dummy Variables: A dummy variable takes on a value of either zero or 
one and can be used to capture the effect of grouping in a multiple 
regression. 
¤Discrete Variable: If the independent variable is discrete, you may have no choice 
but to use a dummy variable to capture its effects. (If you have both private and 
publicly traded companies in a group that you are studying, and you believe that 
they behave differently, you could break them down on that basis).
¤Continuous Variable: Even if a variable is continuous, there may be an advantage to 
converting it into a discrete dummy variable. (Default risk is a continuous variable, 
but you could break companies down into investment and non-investment grade, 
based upon ratings.)
¨Joint Effects: If you believe that your dependent variable is affected by 
interactions between independent variables, you can capture the cross 
effects by looking at products of the independent variables. Thus, if you 
are regressing PE ratios against market cap and expected growth rates, 
you can do the following:
PE = a + b Growth Rate + c Mkt Cap + d (Growth Rate * Mkt Cap)
11
Regression Diagnostics
¨Non-linearity: In a regression, we are assuming that the 
relationship between the dependent and independent 
variables is linear. If it is not:
¤You can run a non-linear regression 
¤or use mathematical transformation (square, natural log etc.) on either 
the dependent or independent variables to create a more linear 
relationship.
¨Multicollinearity: In a multiple regression, the independent 
variables should, in a perfect world, be uncorrelated with 
each other . But we don’t live in a perfect world…
¨Homoskedasticity: The residuals (or prediction errors) should 
not reveal any patterns (get larger or smaller), as the 
independent variable(s) increase and decrease.
¨Normality: The residuals should be normally distributed.
12
Linear versus Non-linear Regressions
¨ The easiest way to detect multicollinearity is to run scatter plots of the dependent 
variable against each independent variable.
¨ A non-linear regression tries to find a best fit line through the non-linear plot. 
The process of fitting a line, though, is more complicated, and often involves trial 
and error (in the background, if you are using  a statistics package).
¨ If you choose to transform a variable (dependent or independent), you may have 
to use trial and error (using the scatter plot) to find your best transformation.
13
Collinearity Diagnostics
¨Multicollinearity can cause coefficient estimates on the independent 
variables to become unreliable and volatile. 
¤It reduces the precision of these coefficients and the statistical power of the 
regression.
¤It generally does not influence the predictions or precision of the predictions.
¨The multicollinearity in a multiple regression can be measured with a 
variance inflation factor (VIF). 
¤A VIF greater than 5 indicates severe multicollinearity
¤A VIF between 1 and 5 indicates moderate multicollinearity
¨Ifthereismulticollinearity,youcan
¤Try replacing or removing oneofapair of independent variables that are 
correlated.
¤Run individual simple regressions against the independent variables
¤Do nothing,usethemultipleregressionforpredictions,anddon’toverread the 
coefficients on variables.
14
Prediction Errors fromRegressions:
Homoskedasticity and Heteroskedasticity…
15
Regression Variants
¨Generalized Least Squares (GLS): When the residuals from your OLS 
regression are heteroskedastic or autocorrelated, one alternative 
that will yield more unbiased estimates is a Generalized Least 
Squares (GLS) regression.
¤To run a G LS regression, you usually begin w ith an O LS regression and use 
the information in the prediction error terms to build a GLS regression.
¤The output from a GLS regression resembles that from an OLS regression 
and can be used similarly to make predictions and test hypotheses.
¨Weighted Least Squares: In a weighted least squares regression, 
not all observations in a sample are weighted equally. Instead, a 
weighting mechanism is created that weights some observations 
more than others.
¤In some cases, the weighting may reflect your belief that some of your 
observations convey more information about the population than others.
¤In others, it can be to counter the problem of standard errors of 
predictions varying across different values for the explanatory variable.
16
Regression Predictions
¨Precision: In almost every regression, your predictions from a regression 
will be imprecise, with a standard error and a range around the 
prediction. If the R-squared is low , and the range is large, a regression is 
less actionable.
¨Stationarity: Regressions are run with observed data from the past. To the 
extent that the process that you are observing is non-stationary, with 
changes in population and structure, the predictions will not hold up in 
future periods.
¨Observability: In a regression, you need to be able to observe the 
dependent variable (or variables) to be able to generate predictions of the 
independent variables. Regressions that use independent variables that 
don’t lend themselves to timely observation cannot be acted upon.
¨Actionability: If the predicted value for Y from a regression deviates from 
the actual value, being able to act on the divergence makes the reliable 
more useful (in many cases).
