Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2019.pdf

JANUARY 2019 DATA UPDATE 2: 
THE BOND MARKET , NOT SO 
BORING!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Bonds: Why bother?
1. Economic predictors? Bond markets offer predictive 
information about future economic growth and 
inflation, and since one of the big uncertainties for 
equities going into the new year is whether the 
economy could go into recession, it is worth paying 
attention to what bond investors are telling us. 
2. Price of risk? One of the stories in the equity market 
during 2018 was that the price of risk, in the form of an 
equity risk premium, rose and became more volatile, 
and it makes sense to look at whether the price of risk 
in the bond market, taking the form of default spreads, 
also exhibited the same characteristics.
3
The US 10-year Bond Rate: The Year that 
was
4
From rates to returns
¨ If you bought ten-year treasury bonds on January 1, 
2018, the rise in the T. B o n drate translated into a 
price drop of 2.43%, effectively wiping out the 
coupon you would have earned and resulting in a 
return for the year of -0.02, better than the -0.42% 
stock returns for the year . But…
5
The Yield Curve
6
TIPs Rate and Inflation
7
What now?
Aswath Damodaran
7
¨ At the start of last year, when investors were 
expecting much stronger growth in the economy and 
had just seen a drop in corporate tax rates, the 
debate was about how much the US treasury bond 
rate would climb over the course of 2018. 
¤ The 10-year US treasury bond rate did rise, but only 
moderately so, perhaps because there was a dampening of 
optimism about future growth in the last quarter . 
¤ That said, the Federal Reserve and its chair, Jerome Powell, 
are still the focus of attention for some investors, obsessed 
with what the central bank will or will not do next year .
8
The Intrinsic Riskfree Rate
9
Reading the Tea Leaves!
¨ There are two possible explanations. 
¤ One is that the bond market is right and that expected growth in the next 
few years will drop dramatically. 
¤ The other is that bond market investors are being much too pessimistic 
about future growth, and that rates will rise as the realization hits them. 
¨ I believe that the truth falls in the middle. Nominal growth in the 
US economy will drop off from its 2018 levels, but not to the levels 
imputed by the bond market today, and treasury bond rates will 
rise to reflect that reality. 
¨ In the absence of a crystal ball, I will hazard a guess that the US 10-
year treasury bond rate will rise to 3.5%, the smoothed out 
intrinsic rate, by the end of the year, and that GDP growth will drop 
by a percent (in nominal and real terms) from 2018 levels.
10
Corporate Bond Default Spreads
11
A Tale of Harmony?
12
A Tale of Harmony?
¨ Bond and stock markets were singing from the same 
song book this year . Both markets started the year, 
expecting continued strength in the economy, but both 
became less upbeat about economic prospects towards 
the end of the year . 
¤ Lower growth: For stock markets, this translated into 
expectations of lower earnings growth and stock prices, and for 
bond markets, its showed up as lower treasury bond rates and 
higher default spreads. 
¤ Higher price for risk:Investors in both markets became more 
wary about risk and demanded higher prices for taking risk, with 
higher equity risk premiums in the stock market and higher 
default spreads in the bond market.
