Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ShortSaleClosure.pdf

INVESTMENT WHIPLASH: BETTER 
TO BE LUCKY THAN GOOD?
Closure on Apple & Amazon Short Sales
2
The Lead In
¨ In September, I concluded that Apple & Amazon were 
over valued and I was selling short on both stocks, 
Amazon for the first time in 22 years of tracking the 
company and Apple at a limit price of $230. 
¨ Two months later, both stocks have taken serious hits in 
the market, down almost 25% apiece, and my short sales 
have been covered
¨ It is always nice to have happy endings to my investment 
stories, but rather than use this as vindication of my 
valuation skills, I will argue that I just got lucky in terms 
of timing.
3
My September Valuations
4
A Happy Ending?
5
Investment Judgments
¨ My Apple short sale which was initiated on October 
2 was closed out on November 5 while Amazon got 
tantalizingly close to my trigger price of $1412 (with 
a low of $1420 on November 20, before 
rebounding.
¨ My Apple short sale which was initiated on October 
2 was closed out on November 5 while Amazon got 
tantalizingly close to my trigger price of $1412 (with 
a low of $1420 on November 20, before 
rebounding.
6
Intrinsic Value Lesson 1: Auto Pilot Rules to 
fight behavioral biases!
¨ I put in limit orders on both my Apple short sale and my 
covering trades on both stocks because I know my 
weaknesses and left to my own devices, the havoc that 
they can wreak on my investment actions. I have never 
hidden the fact that I love Apple as a company and I was 
worried that if I did not put in my limit order at $230, 
and the stock rose to that level, I would find a way to 
justify not selling short. 
¨ For the limit buys to cover my short sales, I used the 
60th percentile of the value distribution, because my 
trigger for buying a stock is that it be at least at the 40th 
percentile of its value distribution and to be consistent, 
my trigger for selling is set at the 60th percentile.
7
Intrinsic Value Lesson 2: Intrinsic value 
changes over time
¨ Among some value investors, there is this misplaced 
belief that intrinsic value is a timeless constant and 
that it is the market that is subject to wild swings, 
driven by changes in mood and momentum. 
¨ That is not true, since not only do the determinants 
of value (cash flows, growth and risk) change over 
time, but so does the price of risk in the market.
¤ The former occurs every time a company has a financial 
disclosure or a major news story (acquisition, divestiture, 
new CEO)
¤ The latter is driven by macro forces.
8
Apple and Amazon
¨ Since my September valuations , there have been a few news 
stories and we can argue about their consequentiality for 
future cash flows and growth, but the big change has been in 
the market. 
¨ Since September 21, the date of my valuation, equity markets 
have been in turmoil, with the S&P 500 dropping about 5.5% 
(through November 30) and the US 10-year treasury bond 
rate have dropped slightly from 3.07% to 3.01%, over the 
same period. If you are wondering why this should affect 
terminal value, it is worth remembering that the price of risk 
(risk premium) is set by the market, and the mechanism it has 
for doing so is the level of stock prices, with a higher equity 
risk premium leading to lower stock prices.
9
ERP Changed!
10
Intrinsic Value Lesson 3: But price changes 
even more
11
Apple: A Longer History of Price and Value
12
Intrinsic Value Lesson 4: A long time horizon is 
necessary, but not always required
¨ Buy and hold (forever): One widely quoted precept in value 
investing is that you should buy good companies and hold 
them for eternity. While buy and hold is not a bad strategy, 
since it minimizes transactions costs, taxes and impulsive 
actions, I hope that my Apple analysis leads you to at least 
rethink its wisdom. 
¨ Long time horizon, if needed: My short sale on Apple was 
predicated on value, but it lasted only a month and four days, 
before being unwound. In fact, earlier this week, I bought 
Apple at $175, because I believe that it under valued today, 
relative to value, giving me a serious case of investing 
whiplash. I am willing to wait a long time for Apple's price to 
adjust to value, but if the price adjusts quickly to value and 
then moves upwards, I have to be willing to sell.
13
Intrinsic Value Lesson 5: To thine own 
philosophy, be true!
¨ I did cover my short sale, by buying back Apple at $205, 
but the stock continued to slide, dropping below $175. I 
almost covered my Amazon position at $1412, but since 
the price did not hit that level, I held on and the stock 
price is back up to almost $1700.
¨ I am not regretful about missing my chances, because 
you have to be true to your investment philosophy, even 
if it means that you leave profits on the table sometimes, 
and lose more money at other times. I have faith in 
value, and that faith requires me to act consistently.
14
Bottom Line
¨ As investors, we are often quick to claim credit for our 
successes but equally quick to blame others for our 
failures, and I am no exception.
¨ I am sorely tempted to view what has happened at Apple 
and Amazon as vindication of my value judgments, I 
know better . I got incredibly lucky in terms of timing, 
catching a market correction and one targeted at tech 
stocks, and I am inclined to believe that luck is the main 
reason for why my Apple and Amazon positions have 
made me money in the last two months. 
¨ I will bank my profits, even if they are entirely fortuitous, 
but I will not delude myself into believing that I have 
somehow developed timing skills.
