Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Contrarian.pdf

What goes down always goes up, right?
§Whenmarkets are in free fall, there is a great deal of advice that is 
meted out to investors, and one is tojust buy the dip, i.e., buy the 
stocks that have been beaten down the most, in the hope that they 
will recover, or the entire market, if it is down. 
§"Buying the dip" falls into a broad group of investment strategies 
that can be classified as "contrarian", where investors act in 
contrast to what the rest of the market is doing at the time, buying 
(selling) when the vast majority are selling (buying) , and it has 
been around through all of market history. 
§Contrarian investing can take different forms, each based on 
different assumptions about market behavior, and present the 
evidence that we have on the success and failure of each one. 
§Even if you are swayed intellectually by the arguments for going 
against the crowd, it may not work for you, if you are not 
psychologically attuned to the stresses that contrarian 
strategies bring with them.
Aswath Damodaran 2
§All contrarian investing is built around a common theme of 
buying an investment, when its price goes down significantly, 
but there are wide variations in how it is practiced. 
§In the first,knee-jerk contrarianism, you use a bludgeon, buying 
either individual companies or the entire market when they are 
down, on the expectation that you will benefit from an inevitable 
recovery in prices. 
§In the second,technical contrarianism, you buy beaten-up stocks 
or the entire market, but only if charting or technical indicator 
support the decision. 
§In the third,constrained contrarianism, you buy the stocks that 
are down, but only if they pass your screens for qualify and safety. 
§In the fourth,opportunistic contrarianism, you use a price 
markdown as an opportunity to buy companies that you have always 
wanted to hold, buthad not been able to buy because they were 
priced too high.
§The simplest and most direct version of contrarian investing is 
to buy any traded asset where the price is down 
substantially from its highs, with the asset sometimes being 
an individual company, sometimes a sector and sometimes the 
entire market. 
§Implicit in this strategy is the belief that what goes down will 
almost always go back up, and that buying at the beaten 
down price and being willing to wait will therefore pay off.
§The evidence to back up this strategy comes from studies of 
overall market returns, much of it based upon historical data in 
the US going back a long time, as well as studies of returns to 
buying ”loser” stocks.
Aswath Damodaran 4
Aswath Damodaran 5
§The first is that there isselection bias,where using historical 
data from the United States, one of the most successful equity 
markets of the last century, to draw general conclusions about 
the risk and returns of investing in equities will lead you to 
under estimaterisk and overestimate returns. 
§The second is that, even with US equities, an investor who 
bought stocks just before a major downturnwould have to 
wait a long time before being made whole again.Thus, 
investors who put their money in stocks in 1929, just ahead of 
the Great Depression, would not have recovered until 1954.
¨7
Aswath Damodaran 8
§Setting aside the mixed evidence for the moment, the biggest 
danger in knee-jerk contrarian investing at the market level is 
that buying the dip in the market is akin to catching a falling 
knife, since that initial market drop can be a prelude to a much 
larger sell off, and to the extent that there was an economic or 
fundamental reason for the sell off (a banking crisis, a severe 
recession), there will be no quick or even long term recovery. 
§With individual stocks, that danger gets multiplied, with 
investors buying stocks that are being sold off to for 
legitimate reasons (a broken business model, dysfunctional 
management, financial distress) and waiting for a market 
correction that never comes. 
Aswath Damodaran 9
§In technical contrarianism, you start with the same basis as 
knee-jerk contrarianism, by looking at stocks and markets that 
have dropped significantly, but withan added requirement 
that the price has tomeet a charting or technical indicator 
constraint before becoming a buy. 
§While there are many who consign technical analysis to voodoo 
investing, I believe that charting patterns and technical 
indicators can provide signals of shifts in mood and 
momentum that drive price movements, at least in the near 
term. 
§Thus, you can view technical contrarianism as buying stocks or 
markets when they are down, but only if the charts and 
technical indicators point to a shift in market mood.
§One of the problems with testing technical contrarianism, to see if 
it works, is that even among technical analysts, there seems to be 
no consensus as to the best indicator to us, but broadly 
speaking, these indicators can be based on either price and/or 
volume movements. 
§They range in sophistication from simple measures like relative 
strength (where you look at percentage price changes over a 
period) and moving averages to complex ones that combine price 
and volume. 
§In recent decades, investors have added pricing in newer 
markets to the mix, with the VIX (a traded volatility index) as well 
as the relative pricing of puts and calls in the options market also 
being used in market timing. 
§In sum, all ofthese indicators are directed at measuring fear in the 
market, with a "market capitulation" viewed as a sign that the 
market has bottomed out.
§Itis quite ironic that some of the best defenses of technical analysis 
have been offered by academics.Lo, Wang, and Mamayskypresent 
a fairly convincingdefense of technical analysis from the 
perspective of financial economists 
§They use daily returns of stocks on the New Y ork Stock Exchange and 
NASDAQ from 1962 and 1996 and employ the most sophisticated 
computational techniques(rather than human visualization) to look 
for pricing patterns. 
§They find that the most common patterns in stocks are double tops and 
bottoms, followed by the widely used head and shoulders pattern. In 
other words, they find evidence that some of the most common 
patterns used by technical analysts exist in prices. 
§Lest this be cause for too much celebration among chartists, they 
also point out that these patterns offer only marginal 
incremental returns (an academic code word for really small) 
and offer the caveat that these returns may not survive transaction 
costs.
§If you are in the old-time value investing camp, your approach 
to contrarian investing will reflect that worldview, where you 
will buy stocks that have dropped in value, but only if they 
meet the other criteria that you have for good companies. 
§In short, you will start with a list of beaten-up stocks, and then 
screen them for high profitability , strong moats and low 
risk, hoping to separate companies that are cheap from those 
that deserve to be cheap.
§As a constrained contrarian, you arehoping to avoid value 
traps, every value investor's nightmare , where a company 
looks cheap on a pricing basis (low PE, low price to book) and 
proceeds to become even cheaper as you hold it.
§The evidence on whether screening helps avoid value traps 
comes largely from studies of the interplay between proxies 
of value (such as lowprice to book ratios) and proxies for 
quality , including measures for both operating/capital 
efficiency (margins and returns on capital) and low risk (low 
debt ratios and volatility). 
§Proponents of quality screens note that while value proxies 
alone no longer seem to deliver excess returns, incorporating 
quality screens seems to preserve these excess returns.
§While much of the research on quality has been built around 
value and small cap investing, the findings can be extrapolated 
to contrarian investing, with the lesson being that rather than 
buy the biggest losers, you should be buying the losers that 
pass screening tests for highprofitability (high returns on 
equity or capital) and low risk (low debt ratios and 
volatility)
§I again returned to the universe of about 6000 publicly traded 
US stocks on April 18, 2025, and after removing any firms with 
market capitalizations less than $100 million (with the rationale 
that these companies will have more liquidity risk and 
transactions costs), I screened first for stocks that have lost 
more than 20% of their market capitalization between March 28 
and April 18, and then added three value screens:
a)a PE ratio less than 15, putting the stock in the bottom 
quintile of US stocks as of December 31, 2024
b)a dividend yield that exceeded 1%, a paltry number by 
historical norms, but ensuring that the company was 
dividend-paying in 2024, a year in which 60% of US stocks 
paid no dividends
c)a net debt/EBITDA ratio of less than two, dropping it into 
the bottom quintile of US companies in terms of debt load
§In a fourth variant of contrarian investing, you use a market 
meltdown as an opportunity to buy companies that youhave 
always wanted to own but could not because they were 
overpriced before the price dropbut look under priced 
after. 
§The best place to start an assessment of opportunistic investing 
is with my post on why good companies are not always good 
investments, with the first being determined by all ofthe 
considerations that go into separating great businesses from 
badbusinesses, including growth and profitability, and the 
second by the price you have topay to buy them.
§At the time that you first value them, you are likely to find 
them to be over valued, which will undoubtedly be frustration.  
Yo u  may  be  t e mp t e d  t o  p l ay  wi t h  t h e  nu mbe r s  t o  ma ke  t h e s e  
companies look undervalued, but a better path is to put 
them on your list of companies you would like to own, and
leave them there. 
§During a market crisis, and especially when investors are 
marking down the prices of everything, without discriminating 
between good and bad companies, you should revisit that list, 
with a caveat that you cannot compare the post-correction 
price to your original valuation of your company. 
§Instead, you will have to revalue the company , with 
adjustments to expected cash flows and risk premiums, 
given the crisis, and if that value exceeds the price, you 
should buy the stock.
§The Mindset: Investing against the market will not come easily 
to those who are easily swayed by peer pressure, since they 
will have to buy, just as other investors (the peer group) will be 
selling, and often in companies that the market has turned 
against. 
§The Time Horizon: To be a contrarian, you don't always need a 
long timehorizon, since correlations can sometimes happen 
quickly, but you have tobe willing to wait for a long period, if 
that is what is necessary for the correction. 
§The Stomach: Even if your buy decision is based on the best 
thought-through contrarian investing strategies, it is likely that 
in the aftermath of that decision, momentum will continue to 
push prices down, testing your faith. Without a strong stomach, 
you will capitulate, and while your decision may have been 
right in the long term, your investment will not reflect that 
success.
§I have the luxury of a long timehorizon and the luck of a 
strong stomach, for market surprises. 
§I am not easily swayed by peer pressure, but I am not 
immune from it either. I know that buying stocks in the face of 
market selling will not come easily to me, and that is the reason 
that I initiated limit buys on three companies that I have wanted 
to have in my portfolio, BYD, the Chinese electric car maker, 
Mercado Libre, the Latin American online retail/fintech firm, 
and Palantir, a company that I believe is closest to delivering 
on thee promise of AI products and services. 
§The limit buy kicked in on BYDon April 7, when it briefly 
dipped below $80, my limit price, and while Palantir and 
Mercado Libre have a way to go before they hit my price limits, 
the crisis is youngand the order is good until canceled.
