Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TwitterElon.pdf

ELON’S TWITTER PLAY: VALUATION 
QUESTION OR POLITICAL RORSCHACH 
TEST?
Politics and Markets
2
The Lead In
¨My first tweet in April 2009, making me ancient by Twitter 
standards. That said, I tweet less than ten times a month and 
follow only three people (three of my four children) on the 
platform. 
¨I am also fascinated by Elon Musk, and even more so by his most 
prominent creation, Tesla, and I have valued and written about him 
and the company multiple times. 
¨When Musk made news a little over two weeks ago, with his 
announcement that he owned a major stake in Twitter, I could not 
stay away from the story, and what's happened since has only 
made it more interesting, as it casts light on just Musk and Twitter, 
but on broader issues of the social and economic value of social 
media platforms, corporate governance, investing and how politics 
has become part of almost every discussion.
3
The Twitter Story: Founding to IPO
Aswath Damodaran3
¨Twitter was founded in 2006 by Jack Dorsey, Noah Glass, 
Biz Stone and Evan Williams, and its platform was 
launched later that year . 
¨It succeeded spectacularly in attracting people to its 
platform, hitting a 100 million users in 2012, and then 
doubling those numbers again by 2013, when it went 
public ,with an initial public offering.
¨Following on the heels of other social media platforms 
like Facebook and LinkedIn that had preceded it to public 
markets, it was cashing in on investor enthusiasm for 
companies with lots of users and potential monetization 
(from advertising, subscriptions, transactions etc.)
5
The Glory Days: Post IPO Run Up
6
The Post-IPO Narrative: User Numbers
7
And Engagement…
¨Over the last decade, the company's platform, and the tweets that show 
up on it, became a ubiquitous part of news, culture and politics, as 
politicians used the platform to expand their reach and spread their ideas 
and celebrities built their personal brands around their followers.
¤Looking at the list of the Twitter persona with the most followers provides some 
measure of its reach, with a mix of politicians (Barack Obama, Narendra Modi), 
musicians (Justin Bieber , Katy Perry, Taylor Swift, Ariana Grande), celebrities (Kim 
Kardashian) and sporting figures (Cristiano Ronaldo). 
¤Sprinkled in the list are brands/businesses (YouTube, CNN Breaking News), with 
millions of followers, though relatively few business peoplemake the list, with Elon 
Musk being the exception. 
¨It is worth noting that many of the people on top follower list tweet 
rarely, and that behavior is mimicked by many of the users on the 
platform, many of whom never tweet. The bulk of the tweets on the 
platform are delivered by a subset of users, with the top 10% of users 
delivering 80% of the tweets.
8
Twitter User Profile
9
Twitter’s Operating History
10
And Stock Prices..
11
Twitter versus Snap
12
Corporate Governance at Twitter
¨ In a period when companies, especially in the tech sector, fixed the corporate 
governance game in favor of insiders and incumbents, by issuing shares with 
different voting classes, Twitter stuck to the more traditional model, with equal 
voting right shares. 
¨ Twitter came into its IPO, with a history of bloodletting at the top, with Jack 
Dorsey, who led the company at the start, getting pushed aside by Evan Williams, 
his co-founder, before reclaiming his place at the top. In fact, at the time of its IPO, 
Twitter's CEO was Dick Costolo, but he was replaced by Dorsey again, a couple of 
years later. Dorsey's founder status gave him cover, but his ownership stake of the 
company was not overwhelming enough to stop opposition. 
¨ The corporate governance issues at Twitter came to a head in 2020, when Elliott 
Management, an activist hedge fund, purchased a billion dollars of Twitter stock, 
and demanded changes. While Dorsey was successful in fighting off their 
demands that he step down, he surprised investors and may company employees 
when he stepped down in November 2021, claiming that he was leaving of his 
own volition. As a replacement, the board did stay within the firm in picking a 
successor, Parag Agrawal, who joined Twitter as a software engineer in 2011 and 
rose to become Chief Technology Officer in 2017.
13
The Musk Entrée!
14
The Arguments and Counters…
¨While Musk's acquisition bid is anything but conventional, the 
gaming that it initiated on the part of Twitter, the target 
company, and Musk, the potential acquirer, was completely 
predictable. 
¨The company's initial response was that it was worth great 
deal more than Musk's offering price, and that Twitter 
shareholders would be receiving too little for their shares if 
they sold. 
¨Musk's response was that the market clearly did not believe 
that current management could deliver that higher value, and 
that he would be able to do much better with the platform.
¨For shareholders in Twitter, who ultimately are the arbiters of 
this decision, the question is who do you trust?
15
A Lowball Offer? Status Quo Value
¨Twitter's argument that Musk was lowballing value, by 
offering $54.20 per share for the company, and that the 
company was worth a lot more is not a novel one, and it 
is heard in almost every hostile acquisition, from target 
company management. 
¨That argument can sometimes be true, since markets 
can undervalue companies, but is it the case with 
Twitter? 
¨To answer that question, I valued Twitter on April 4, at 
about the time that Musk announced his 9.2% stake, 
updating my story to reflect a solid performance from 
the company in 2021, and with Parag Agrawal in place as 
CEO.
18
Competing Views on Twitter
¨ Twitter's management will claim that the company's platform has the potential to 
deliver significantly more value, either by changing the business model (and 
including subscriptions and other revenue sources) or fine tuning the advertising 
model. 
¨ On this count, Musk will agree with the argument that Twitter has untapped 
potential, but counter that he (and only he) can make the changes to Twitter's 
business model to deliver this potential. In short, investors will get to choose not 
only between competing visions for Twitter's future, but also who they trust to 
deliver those visions.
¨ Each side faces credibility problems with the market:
¤ The problem that Twitter's management will face in mounting a case that Twitter is worth 
more, if it is run differently, is that they have been the custodians of the company for the last 
decade, andhave been unable or unwilling to deliver these changes. 
¤ Elon Musk's problem, on the Twitter deal, is a different one. If you think Jack Dorsey was 
stretching the limits of his time by running two companies, I am not sure how to characterize 
what Musk will be doing, if he acquires Twitter, since he does have a trillion dollarcompany to 
run, in Tesla, not to mention SpaceX, the Boring company and a host of other ventures. His 
unpredictability makes it difficult to judge what his end game is, since he could do anything 
from selling his position tomorrow to bulldozing his way through a poison pill, taking Twitter 
down with him.
19
Alternative Endings..
1. Status Quo: Twitter wins this round with Musk, and the existing management go back 
to their plans for incremental change that they have already put in motion, and hope 
that the payoffs of higher revenue growth and profitability will unlock share value.
2. Musk takes Twitter private: For Musk to succeed at this point, he has tobe able to buy 
enough shares in a tender offer and/or convince other shareholders to put pressure on 
the board to remove the poison pill and allow him to move forward with his plans. The 
odds are against success, but then again, this is Elon Musk.
3. Independent, but with corporate governance changes: Having gone through five CEOs 
over Twitter's life, the dysfunction at the company may lie with the board, and not just 
with the CEO. In this scenario, institutional investors will follow through by pushing for 
change in the company, translating into new board members and perhaps even a new 
CEO.
4. Someone else acquires Twitter: There may be something to Musk's claim that the 
changes that are needed to make Twitter a functional business can only be made, if it 
is taken private. If so, it is the board may be willing to sell the company to someone 
other than Musk, albeit at a slightly higher price (if for no other reason than to save 
face. This will mean that Elon Musk will have accomplished much of what he set out to 
do, without spending $43 billion dollars along the way or having to deal with the 
distractions that owning Twitter will bring to his other, more valuable, ventures.
20
The Elephant in the Room…
¨ This is , at its core, a political story, not a financial one. To see why, consider a 
simple test. If you tell me which side of the political divide you fall on, I am fairly 
certainthat I will be able to guess whether you favor or oppose Musk's takeover 
bid. As with most things political, you will provide an alternate, more reasoned, 
argument for why you are for or opposed, but you are deluding yourself, and 
hypocrisy is rampant on both sides. 
¤ If you are opposed to the deal, and your argument is that billionaires should not control social 
media platforms, that outrage cannot be selective, and you should be just as upset about Jeff 
Bezos owning the Washington Post or a George Soros bid for Fox News. If it is Musk's 
personality that you feel is what makes him an unsuitable owner, I wonder whether we should 
be requiring full personality tests of the owners of other media companies.
¤ If you are for the deal, and it is because you want Twitter to be a bastion of free speech, it is 
worth remembering that every social media platform is involved in some degree of censoring, 
for legal reasons and self preservation. It is also worth noting that while those disaffected with 
Twitter have attempted to build their own social media platforms, they still get far more 
mileage from their presence on Twitter than from their posts on alternate platforms, and the 
complaints about Twitter not being balanced seem to end up being on Twitter .
21
For perspective..
Aswath Damodaran21
¨ Some critics of Musk seem to have decided that Twitter, in its current form, is a 
national treasure that needs to be preserved or at least protected from money 
grubbing barbarians. 
¨ The brevity (of having to compress your thoughts into 280 characters) and 
timeliness of Twitter's platform has made it the place to go to get breaking news, 
but the notion that it is an educational platform shortchanges the meaning of 
learning, and the impulsiveness that it encourages from users is a recipe for 
tweeting remorse, or worse. 
¨ I believe that while there are some who come to Twitter for news and witty 
repartee, many come to the platform for the same reasons that they slow down 
on highways to look at car crashes, i.e., to witness, and sometimes partake in, 
deranged arguments about trivial issues. 
¨ Much as we like to complain about the ugliness and anger on social media, it is 
exactly those forces that draw us to it, and arguing that Elon Musk will make it 
worse, is missing the point that he symbolizes the strengths and weaknesses of 
the Twitter platform better than any other person walking the face of the earth.
