Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2023.pdf

DATA UPDATE 4 FOR 2023: 
COUNTRY RISK
Globalization’s dark side!
1
2
A confession…
¨ I describe myself as a dabbler, and it does get in the way of my best laid plans. 
A few weeks ago, I postedmy first data updatepulling together what I had 
learned from looking at the data in 2023, andpromised many more on the 
topic. 
¨ In the month since, I have added two more posts,one on US equitiesand one 
on interest rates, but my attention has been drawn away by other interesting 
stories. 
¤ Thus, I tooka detour to value Tesla, around the time of their most recent earnings report on 
January 26, and addeda second post to respond to the pushbackthat I got. 
¤ About a week and a half ago, just as I was getting ready to get started on my fourth data 
update, Igot distracted again, this time by a story of a short seller (Hindenburg) targeting one 
of India's most visible companies (Adani Group) 
¤ Whether you think Hindenburg's short selling thesis against the Adani Group has legs, it is 
undeniable that the fate and value of this family group's companies is intertwined with the 
India story. A strongly growing India needs massive investments in infrastructure to succeed, 
and the Adani Group seemed uniquely qualified because of its perceived capacity to deliver on 
its promises, as well as its political connections.
¨2
3
Country Risk: The Foundations
3
¨Thereis risk in investing inevery country in the world, 
with the differences being one of degree. 
¤Thus, you would be making a mistake, if you assume that this 
discussion only applies if you are investing in India, Brazil or 
Belarus, and that it does not, if your investing is in theUnited 
States, Germany or Australia. 
¤Thedeveloped/emerging market divide was created for 
convenience, and while it sometimes has consequential effects, 
as is sometimes the case when a company is reclassified as 
developed from emerging, or vice versa, much of what I will say 
about how governments, legal systems and regulatory 
frameworks can affect corporate value applies to all countries.
4
CountryRisk:Determinants
4
5
A Country Life Cycle…
¨5
6
History of Sovereign Default: Geography
¨6
7
History of Default Risk: Currency
¨7
8
Riskfree Rates in Currencies
8
9
Sovereign Ratings
9
¨Theratingsagenciesthatratecorporatedefaultwithratingshave
alsohadalonghistoryofassessingsovereigndefaultrisk,with
ratings,withthenumbersofcountriesratedincreasingdramatically
overtime,withthenumberofcountriesratedbyMoody's(S&)
increasingfrom33(35)in1990to152(131)atthestartof2023.
¨Sovereign ratings, likecorporateratings, range from Aaa(AAA) in 
Moody's (S&P's) scale, to D (in default, with a couple of differences 
in how you read the ratings:
o Whileeachcompanygenerallygetsonerating,countriesareusually
assignedtworatings,oneforlocalcurrencyborrowingandoneforforeign
currencyborrowing.
o Thefundamentalsthatfeedcorporateratingscomeprimarilyfromits
financialdisclosures,thoughqualitativefactorsplayarole.Sovereign
ratingsstartwithquantitativemeasuresofacountry'seconomicstanding,
buttherearefarmorenon-financialforcesthatseemtocomeintoplay.
10
Sovereign Ratings in January 2023
10
11
Sovereign CDS Spreads
¨The sovereign CDS market, a relatively recent 
entrant into the sovereign default risk game, has for 
the last two decades offered investors a market 
where they can buy insurance against default risk by 
sovereigns.
¨Bydoing so, provided a constantly updated, albeit 
noisy, measure of the default spreads of countries. 
¤In January 2023, there were 76 countries with sovereign 
CDS spreads available on the market.
11
12
13
Composite Country Risk
13
¨While default risk measures are widely available and used, 
they can be rightly challenged as taking toonarrow a view of 
risk. After all, there are countries that score low on the 
default risk dimension but are exposed to political and 
economic risks that are considerable, as is the case with much 
of the oil-rich countries of the Middle East. 
¨There are no easy remedies for this problem, but there are 
services that generate country risk scores that bring in 
multiple measures of risk. 
¨While the Economist, the World Bank and private services 
provide country risk scores, I will stay with Political Risk 
Services, a data service I have used for a long time, more 
because of my familiarity with it than for any perceived 
superiority in how it measures risk.
14
15
Equity Risk: From default spreads to equity 
risk premiums
¨15
16
17
Company Risk Exposure to Country Risk
¨17
18
The End Game for Government
¨18
¨IknowthatIamgoingagainstthecurrentpoliticaltrend,butIbelieve
thattheendgameforagoodgovernmentisanalogoustothatofagood
founder,andthatis,onceithasprovidedthestructureandthebasisfor
growthandprosperity,tomakeitselflesscentraltotheeconomy,not
moreso.
¨Notethatwhilethismayseemlikethelibertarianposition,thereare
significantdifferences.
¤Idobelievethatitisagovernment'sroletocraftlawsandregulationsthat
minimizetheexternalitiesthatbusinessescreate
¤Thoselaws/regulationsshouldbefewinnumberandchanges,whentheyhappen,
shouldbereasonedandinfrequentandenforcementshouldbefairandtimely.
¨Thereisnothingmoreunsettlingthanbeingabusinessperson,consumer
orcitizeninasetting,whereyouarefacedanavalancheofrules,
sometimescontradictory,thatareconstantlychanging,andenforced
inconsistently.
