Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/KraftHeinz.pdf

THE PERILS OF IDOLS WORSHIP: 
THE KRAFT HEINZ LESSONS
Aswath Damodaran
2
The Kraft Heinz Earnings Blow Up
¨ On February 22, Kraft-Heinz shocked investors with a trifecta of bad news in its 
earnings report: sub-par operating results, a mention of accounting irregularities 
and a massive impairment of goodwill, and followed up by cutting dividends per 
share almost 40%. Investors in the company reacted by selling their shares, 
causing the stock price to drop more than 25% overnight. 
¤ While Kraft is neither the first, nor will it be the last company, to have a bad quarter, its travails 
are noteworthy for a simple reason. Significant portions of the stock were held by Berkshire 
Hathaway (26.7%) and 3G Capital (29%), a Brazil-based private equity group. 
¤ Berkshire Hathaway’s lead oracle is Warren Buffett, venerated by some who track his every 
utterance, and try to imitate his actions. 3G Capital might not have Buffett’s name recognition, 
but its lead players are viewed as ruthlessly efficient managers, capable of delivering large cost 
cuts. 
¨ In fact, their initial joint deal to bring together Heinz and Kraft, two of the biggest 
names in the food business, was viewed as a master stroke, and given the 
pedigree of the two investors, guaranteed to succeed. As the promised benefits 
have failed to materialize, the investors who followed them into the deal seem to 
view their failure as a betrayal.
3
The Back Story
¨ Heinz, the older of the two companies, traces its history back to 
1869, when Henry Heinz started packing and selling horseradish, 
and after a brief bout of bankruptcy, turned to making 57 varieties 
of ketchup. Heinz was acquired by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G 
Capital for $23 billion, becoming a private company. 
¨ Kraft started life as a cheese company in 1903, and over the next 
century, it expanded first into other dairy products, and then 
widened its repertoire to includes other processed foods. In 1981, 
it merged with Dart Industries, maker of Duracell batteries and 
Tupperware, before it was acquired by Philip Morris in 1988. After 
a series of convulsions, where parts of it were sold and rest merged 
with Nabisco, Kraft was spun off by Philip Morris (renamed Altria).
¨ In 2015, the two companies were brought together, with Berkshire 
Hathaway and 3G playing both match makers and deal funders, as 
Kraft Heinz, and the merger was completed in July 2015.
4
The Post-Merger Numbers
5
The Earnings Shock
¨ Flatlining Operartions: Revenues for 2018 were unchanged from 
revenues in 2017, but operating income dipped (before impairment 
charges) from $6.2 billion in 2017 to $5.8 billion in 2018; the 
operating margin dropped from 23.5% in 2017 to 22% in 2018.
¨ Accounting Irregularities : In a surprise, the company also 
announced that it was under SEC investigation for accounting 
irregularities in its procurement area, and took a charge of $25 
million to reflect expected adjustments to its costs.
¨ Goodwill Impairment : The company took a charge of $15.4 billion 
for impairment of goodwill, primarily on their US Refrigerated and 
Canadian Retail, an admission that they paid too much for 
acquisitions in prior years.
¨ Dividend Cuts : The company, a perennial big -dividend payer, cut its 
dividend per share from $2.50 to $1.60, to prepare itself for what it 
said would be a difficult 2019.
6
Why the surprise?
¨ While investors were shocked, the crumb trail leading up 
to this report contained key clues. Revenues had already 
flattened out in 2017, relative to 2016, and the decline in 
margins reflected difficulties that 3G faced in trying to 
cut costs, after the deal was made. 
¨ The only people who care about impairment charges, a 
pointless and delayed admission of overpayment on 
acquisitions, are those who use book value of equity as a 
proxy for overall value. 
¨ The dividend cuts were perhaps a surprise, but more in 
what they say about how panicked management must 
be about future operations, since a company this 
attached to dividends cuts them only as a last resort.
9
The Action Follow up
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨ If you owned Kraft Heinz prior to the earnings report (and I 
thankfully did not), selling now will accomplish little. The 
damage has been done already, and the stock as priced now, 
is a fair value investment. I know that 3G sold almost one 
quarter of its hold 3 days after Tuesday, but that may say 
more about 3G than it does about Kraft Heinz.
¨ If you don’t own Kraft Heinz, the valuation suggests that the 
stock is fairly valued, at today’s price, but at a lower price, it 
would be a good investment. I have a limit buy on the stock at 
a $30 price, and if it does hit that price, I will be a Kraft Heinz 
stockholder, notwithstanding the fact that I think its future 
looks grim. If it does not drop that low, there are other fish to 
catch and I will move on.
10
Lesson 1: It is human to err
¨ At the risk of stating the obvious, Warren Buffett and 3G’s key 
operators are human, and are prone to not only making mistakes, 
like the rest of us, but also to have blind spots in investing that hurt 
them. 
¨ In fact, Buffett has been open about his mistakes , and how much 
they have cost him and Berkshire Hathaway shareholders. He has 
also been candid about his blind spots, which include an 
unwillingness to invest in businesses that he does not understand, 
a sphere that only grows as he gets older and the economy 
changes, and an excessive trust in the managers of the companies 
that he invests in. 
¨ The fault, in my view, is not with Buffett, but with the legions of 
investors, analysts and journalists who treat him as an investment 
deity, quoting his words as gospel and tarring and feathering 
anyone who dares to question them.
11
Lesson 2: Stocks are not bonds…
¨ One reason that stocks like Kraft Heinz become attractive conservative 
value investors is because they offer high dividend yields, often much 
higher than what you could earn investing in treasury or even safe 
corporate bonds. In effect, the rationale that investors use is that by 
buying these shares, they are in effect getting a bond (with the dividends 
replacing coupons), with price appreciation. 
¨ The underlying premise is that investors can count more on dividends 
than on buybacks. While it is true that dividends are stickier than 
buybacks, these dividend -based strategies become delusional when they 
treat dividends as obligated payments, rather than expected ones. 
¨ Much as companies do not like to cut dividends, they are not 
contractually obligated to pay dividends. In fact, when a stock carries a 
dividend yield that looks too good to be true, it is usually almost always 
an unsustainable dividends.
12
Lesson 3: Brand Names last a long time, 
but not forever ..
¨ A major lodestone of conventional value investing is that 
while technology, cost efficiencies and new products are 
all competitive advantages that can generate value, it is 
brand name that is the moat that has the most staying 
power . 
¨ Again, that statement reflects a truth, which is that 
brand names last long, often stretching over decades, 
but even brand name benefits fade, as customers change 
and companies seek to become global. 
¨ The troubles at Kraft-Heinz are part of a much bigger 
story, where some of the most recognized and valued 
brand names of the twentieth century, from Coca Cola to 
McDonalds, are finding that their magic fading.
13
Lesson 4: Cost cutting can take you far, but 
no further ..
¨ For the last few decades, we have cut a great deal of 
slack for those who use cost cutting as their pathway for 
creating value, with many leveraged buyouts and 
restructurings built almost entirely on its promise. 
¨ In firms with significant cost inefficiencies and bloat, cost 
cutting can deliver significant gains in profits, but even 
with these firms, those gains will be time limited, since 
there is only so much fat to cut out. 
¨ Worse, there are firms that find themselves in trouble 
for a myriad of reasons that have little to do with cost 
inefficiencies and cutting costs as these firms is a recipe 
for disaster.
14
The Final Lesson
¨ I admire Buffett’s adherence to a core philosophy and his 
willingness to be open about his mistakes, but I think he 
is ill served by his devotees, who insist on putting him on 
a pedestal and refuse to accept the reality that his 
philosophy has its limits, that like the rest of us, he has 
an ego and makes mistakes. 
¤ If you have faith in value investing, you should be willing to have 
that faith tested by the mistakes that you and the people you 
admire make in its pursuit. 
¤ If your investment views are dogma, and you believe that your 
path is only the correct one to success, I wish you the best, but 
righteousness and rigidity have never delivered positive 
investing payoffs.
