Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate6for2025.pdf

The Swiss Army Knife of Finance!
§In the first five posts, I have looked at the macro numbers 
from interest rates to risk premiums, and it is not my 
preferred habitat. 
§I prefer the far less rarefied air of corporate finance and 
valuation, where businesses try to decide what projects to 
invest in, and investors attempt to estimate business value. 
§A key tool in both endeavors is a hurdle rate –a rate of return that 
you determine as your required return for business and investment 
decisions.
§In this post, I will drill down to what it is that determines the 
hurdle rate for a business, bringing in what business it is in, how 
much debt it is burdened with and what geographies it operates in.
Aswath Damodaran 2
§Yo u  d o n ' t  n e e d  t o  h ave  t a ke n  a  c o r p o ra t e  f i n a n c e  o r  va l u a t i o n  
class to get acquainted with hurdle rates, and going through a 
finance class both deepens the acquaintance and ruins it. 
§It deepens the acquaintance because you encounter costs of 
capital in almost every aspect of finance. 
§It ruins it, by making it all about equations and models. Most 
finance professionals, when asked whatacost of capital is, fall back 
on these models.
§A few years ago, I wrote a paper for practitioners on the cost of 
capital, where I described the cost of capital as the Swiss 
Army knife of finance, because of its many uses.
Aswath Damodaran 3
Aswath Damodaran 5
Aswath Damodaran 6
Aswath Damodaran 7
§The first is, of course,the riskfree rate, a number that varies 
across time (as you saw in post on US treasury rates in data 
update 4) and across currencies (in my post on currencies in 
data update 5).
§The second set of inputs are prices of risk, in both the equity 
and debt markets, with the former measured byequity risk 
premiums, and thelatter by default spreads. 
§In data update 2, I looked at equity risk premiums in the United 
Statesand then expanded that discussion to equity risk premiums 
in the rest of the worldin data update 5). 
§In data update 4, I looked at movements in corporate default 
spreadsduring 2024.
§Inbothcases, I emphasized that these numbers were volatile, 
reflecting investor hopes and fears shifting over time.
AswathDamodaran ¨9
Aswath Damodaran 10
§Corporate Default Risk, i.e, a measure of how much default 
risk there is in a company , with higher default risk translating 
into higher default spreads. 
§For a  large subset of firms, a bond rating may stand in as this 
measure, but even in its absence, you have no choice but to estimate 
it. 
§For firms without abondrating,you are assessing whether the 
company has the earnings capability to cover its contractual 
debt payments, in measuring its default risk.
§Adding to the estimation challenge is the fact that as a 
company borrows more money, it will play out in the default 
risk (increasing it), with consequences for both the cost of 
equity and debt (increasing those as well).
Aswath Damodaran 11
§Cost of capital calculation:The full cost of capital calculation is 
not complex, but it does require inputs about operating risk, 
leverage and default risk that can be hard to assess for young 
companies or companies with little history (operating and market). 
For those companies, I often use the distribution to estimate the 
cost of capital to use in valuing the company
§Detect fantasy hurdle rates: In my experience, investors and 
companies make up hurdle rates, the former to value companies 
and the latter to use inn investment analysis. These hurdle rates are 
either hopeful thinking on the part of investors who want to make 
that return or reflect inertia, where these hurdle rates were set in 
stone years ago and have never been revisited. 
§Time-varying hurdle rates: When valuing companies, I believe in 
maintaining consistency within, and one of the places I would 
expect it to show up is in hurdle rates that change over time, as the 
company's story changes.
§Corporate hurdle rate: As I noted in my section on costs of capital, by 
sector and industry, the notion that there is a corporate hurdle rate that can 
be used to assess investments across the company is a myth, and one with 
dangerous consequences. 
§Reality check on hurdle rates: All too often, I have heard CFOs of 
companies, when confronted with a cost of capital calculated using market 
risk parameters and the company's risk profile, say that it looks too low, 
especially in the decade of low interest rates, or sometimes, too high, 
especially if they operate in anrisky , high-interest rate environment. 
§Hurdle rates are dynamic: In both corporate and investment settings, 
there is this almost desperate desire to find hurdle rates that are stable and 
don't change much over time. I understand the pull, and it is easier to run a 
business when hurdle rates are not volatile, but again, the market acts as a 
reality check. 
§Hurdle rates are not where business/valuation battles are won or lost: 
It is true that costs of capital are the D in a DCF , but they are not and should 
never be what makes or breaks a valuation. In my four decades of 
valuation, I have made been badly mistaken many times, and the culprit 
almost always has been and error on forecasting growth, profitability or 
reinvestment (all of which leadinto the cash flows), not the discount rate
