Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch4.pdf

THE CORPORATE LIFE 
CYCLE –
TRANSITIONS
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Pre-money versus Post-money value: Venture 
capitalists often draw a distinction between 
pre-money valuation of a business (the 
value prior to the venture capitalist 
investing) and a post-money valuation of the 
same business (after the venture capital 
infusion). 
§There is an element of judgment involved here, 
leading to different approaches to differentiating 
between the two estimates. 
§If you are working with an existing pricing of a 
business, the post-money pricing is estimated by 
adding the capital infusion to the pricing.  
§Alternatively, the venture capital pricing 
described in the last section is considered a 
post-money pricing, and netting out the capital 
provided from it, yields the pre-money pricing. 
§VC Protections: When venture capitalists invest 
in a young business, they are hoping for 
upside, but they are also concerned about the 
downside. Many venture capital investments 
provide protection against ownership loss, by 
adjusting ownership shares of existing venture 
capitalists to reflect the lower value on the 
down round. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Globalization: Venture capital, historically  
centered in the United States, is now accessible 
globally, albeit with differences in 
accessibility.
§Investor make-up: In its original form, the 
venture capital game was institutional, but it 
has opened upto individual and retail 
investors, with innovations made possible by 
technology. 
§Corporate venture capital: The flows from 
corporate venture capital have increased in the 
last two decades because of two 
developments. 
§The first is the growth in the health care and 
technology businesses, where mature companies have 
discovered that the most efficient ways for them to invest 
is to put their capital into young companies, with 
promising technologies, rather than spend the same 
money on internal R&D. 
§The second is that the winners in these businesses have 
also accumulated unprecedented amounts of cash on 
their balance sheets, giving them capital to invest in a 
multitude of businesses. 
Aswath Damodaran
§For some ambitious firms, the option to go 
public becomes a consideration, when 
public equity markets are offering better 
pricing termsand the need for liquidity 
is higher. 
§There are at least two costs to going 
public that must be weighed into the 
decision. 
§The first is that the information disclosure 
requirements for firms in public markets 
tend to be more onerous than for those in 
private businesses. 
§The second is that the pressures on the 
firm to match or beat investor 
expectations on a short term (quarterly, 
semi-annual) basis on metrics (user 
numbers, revenues, earnings) can not only 
add to the stresses of managing a firm, but 
can, at least in some cases, lead to decisions 
that are damaging to the firm in the long 
term. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Bigger deals: As the amount of 
capital flowing into private 
equity has increased, so has its 
capacity to do big deals. 
Globalization: As with venture 
capital and initial public 
offerings, private equity has 
evolved from a primarily US 
phenomenon to a more global 
setting. 
Flexibility on leverage: In the 
early years, almost every PE 
buyout was accompanied by 
leverage, giving rise to the LBO 
acronym. 
Aswath Damodaran
