Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/dataupdate1for2020.pdf

DATAUPDATE 1 FOR 2020: 
SETTING THE TABLE
Aswath Damodaran
2
TimeforMoneyball
¨Starting in the early 1990s, I have spent the first week or 
two of every new year playing my version of Moneyball, 
downloading raw market and accounting data on 
publicly traded companies and using that data to 
compute operating, pricing and risk metrics for them. 
¨This year, I got a later start than usual on January 6, but 
as the week draws to a close, the results of my data 
exploration are posted on mywebsiteand will be the 
basis for a series of posts here over the next six weeks. 
¨As you look at the data, you will find that the choices I 
have made on how to classify companies and compute 
metrics affect my findings, and I will use this post to cast 
some light on those choices.
3
Raw Data: Crediting the Sources
¨We live in an age when accessing raw data is easy, albeit 
not always cheap, and the tools to analyze that data are 
also widely available. 
¨My raw data is drawn from a variety of sources, ranging 
from S&P Capital IQ to Bloomberg to the Federal 
Reserve.
¨There are two rules that I try to follow. 
¤The first is to be careful about attributing sources for the raw 
data
¤The second is to not undercut my raw data providers by 
replicating their data on my site, if they have commercial 
interests.
4
The Sample
5
Data: Broad Groups
¨The first ismacro data, where my ambitions tend to be 
modest, and the only numbers that I update are 
numbers that I need and use in my valuation and 
corporate financial analysis. 
¨The second isbusiness data, where I consolidate the 
company-level data into industry groupings, and report 
statistics on how companies invest, finance their 
operations and return cash (dividends and buybacks). 
¨The third aremy data archives, where you can look at 
trend lines in the statistics by accessing my statistics 
from prior years.
6
Macro Data
¨ Risk free rates in currencies: I update my currency risk free rates, starting with the 
government bond rates, and then netting out default spreads andreport them here. I also 
update an intrinsic measure of the US dollar risk free rate, obtained by adding the inflation 
rate to real GDP growth each year, and report the time series inthis dataset.
¨ Equity Risk Premiums: I update the historical risk premium for US stocks, by bringing in 2019 
returns on stocks, treasury bonds and treasury billsin this dataset; my updated geometric 
average premium for stocks over US treasuries. I estimate the implied ERP to be 5.20% at the 
start of 2020and report theyear-end estimates of the premium going back to 1960in this 
dataset.
¨ Corporate Default Spreads: I break down bonds into bond rating classes (S&amp;Pand 
Moody's) and report my estimates of default spreads at the start of 2020 inthis 
spreadsheet.
¨ Corporate Tax Rates: I am grateful to KPMG forgoing through tax codes in different countries 
and compiling corporate tax rates, which I reproducein this dataset.
¨ Country Risk Premiums: At the start of 2020, I use my approach, flaws and all, to estimate 
equity risk premiums for 170 countries and report themin this dataset.
7
Micro Data
8
Archived Data
¨When I first started compiling my datasets, I did not 
expect them to be widely used, and certainly did not 
believe that they would be referenced over time. 
¨As I starting getting requests for datasets from earlier 
years, I decided that it would save both me and you a 
great deal of time to createan archive of past datasets. 
¨As you look at these archives, you will notice that not all 
datasets go back in time to the 1990s, reflecting first the 
expansion of my analysis from just US companies to 
global companies about 15 years ago and second the 
adding on of variables that I either did not or could not 
report in earlier years.
9
The Rationale for Data Analysis
¨ It gives me perspective: It gives me perspective not only on what comprises 
normal in corporate financial behavior , but also on the differences across sectors 
and geographies.
¨ Possible, Plausible and Probable: I have long argued that the valuation of a 
company always starts with a story but that a critical part of the process of 
converting narrative to value is checking the story for possibility, plausibility and 
probability. Having the global data aggregated and analyzed can help significantly 
in making this assessment.
¨ Rules of thumb: In spite ofall of the data that we now have available, investors 
and companies seem to still rely on rules of thumb devised in a different time and 
market. Using the global data, we can back up or dispel these rules of thumb and 
perhaps replace them with more dynamic and meaningful decision rules.
¨ Fact-based opinions: Many market prognosticators and economists seem to have 
no qualms about making up stuff about investor and corporate behavior and 
stating them as facts. Those "facts" are now driving political debate and may well 
lead to change in policy, but these are more opinions than facts, and the data can 
be arbiter .
10
The Rationale for Sharing
¨Nothing that I am doing is unique, and I have no 
secret data stashes. In short, anyone with access to 
data (and there are literally tens of thousands who 
do) can do the same analysis. 
¨I lose nothing by sharing, and I gain a great deal in 
karmic payoffs. 
¨So, please use whatever data you want, and in 
whatever context, and I hope that it saves you time 
and helps you in your decision making and analysis.
11
The Caveats
¨Data is not objective: The notion that using data makes you 
objective is nonsense. In fact, the most egregious biases are data-
backed, as people with agendas pick and choose the data that 
confirms their priors. 
¨Crowds are not always wise: One of the strongest forces in 
corporate finance is me-tooism, where companies decide how to 
invest, how much to borrow and what to pay in dividends by 
looking at what their peers do. In my datasets, I offer them 
guidance in this process, by reporting debt ratios and dividend 
payout ratios for sectors, as well as regional breakdowns. The 
implicit assumption is that what other companies do, on average, 
must be sensible, but that assumption is not always true. This 
warning is particularly relevant when you look at the pricing 
metrics (PE, EV to EBITDA etc.) that I report, by sector and by 
region. The market may be right, on average, but it can also over 
price or under price a sector, at times.
