Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ValueInvesting2.pdf

VALUE INVESTING II: TIME FOR 
AN UPDATE
The Lead In
2
Value Investing glory days… 
¨ While the story told about value investing is one of 
uninterrupted success, even in its glory days, value 
investing had bad years, where growth investing 
beat value investing.
¨ Furthermore, even over this period where value 
investing looks like it beat growth investing, it is not 
clear that “active” value investing has added much 
value to the process.
3
Value vs Growth, by year
4
Reading the year-by-year graph…
¨ While it is true that low price to book stocks earned higher annual 
returns than high price to book stocks, note that there is significant 
variation over time, and that the high price to book stocks 
delivered higher returns in 44 of the 93 years of data. 
¨ In particular, looking back at the data on value versus growth and 
correlating with other variables, there are two fundamentals that 
seem to be correlated with whether value or growth investing 
emerges the winner .
¤ The first is earnings growth, with growth investing beating value investing 
when earnings growth rates are low, perhaps because growth becomes a 
scarcer and a bigger driver of value.
¤ The other is the slope of the yield curve, i.e., the difference between short 
term and long term rates, with flatter and downward sloping yield curves 
associates with growth outperforming and upward sloping yield curves 
with value outperforming.
5
And active value investing does not seem to 
have a payoff
¨ Investing in low PE or low PBV stocks would not be 
considered true value investing, by most of its adherents. In 
fact, most value investors would argue that the while you 
may start with these stocks, the real payoff to value investing 
comes in from the additional analysis that they do, whether it 
be in bringing in other quantitative screens (following up on 
Ben Graham) and qualitative ones (good management, 
moats). 
¨ If we call this active value investing, the true test of value 
investing then becomes whether following value investing 
precepts and practices and picking stocks generates returns 
that exceed the returns on a value index fund, created by 
investing in low price to book or low PE stocks, in proportion 
to their market value
6
Payoff to value screens…
¨ Henry Oppenheimer examined the returns on stocks, picked using 
the Graham screens, between 1970 and 1983, and found that they 
delivered average annual returns of 29.4% a year, as opposed to 
11.5% of the index. There are other studies that do come to the 
same conclusion, looking at screening over the period, but they all 
suffer from two fundamental problems. 
¤ The first is that one of the screens that invariably gets used is low PE and 
low PBV, and we already know that these stocks delivered significantly 
higher returns than the rest of the market for much of the last century, 
and it is unclear from these studies whether all of the additional screens 
used add much to value investing. 
¤ The second is that the ultimate test of a philosophy is not in whether its 
strategies work on paper, but in whether the investors who use those 
strategies make money on actual portfolios. There is many a slip between 
the cup and the lip, when it comes to converting paper strategies to 
practical ones, which is one reason why there are so many ways to make 
money on paper , but so few people seem to be able to do it.
7
Payoff to Contrarian Value looks good…
8
Until you look deeper…
9
Payoff to Activist Value 
¨ Of all of the different strands of value investing, the 
one that seems to offer the most promise is activist 
investing, since it is a club that only those with 
substantial resources can join, with the promise of 
bringing change to companies. 
¨ The early results looked promising, as activist hedge 
funds seemed to offer a greater chance of beating 
the market than other investing approaches.
10
The Early Returns..
11
And an update…
12
Payoff to indexed value..
¨ Many value investors will blanch at the idea of bringing 
indexed value investors into this group, but there can be no 
denying the fact that funds have flowed into tilted index 
funds, with many of the tilts reflecting historical value factors 
(low price to book, small cap, low volatility). 
¨ The sales pitch for these funds is more often that you can not 
only get a higher return, because of your factor tilts, but 
also a bigger bang (return) for your risk (standard deviation) 
rather than a higher return per se (higher ratios of returns to 
standard deviation). 
¨ The jury is still out, and my personal view is that titled index 
funds are an oxymoron, and that these funds should be 
categorized as minimalist value funds, where you try to 
minimize your activity, so as to not lower your costs.
13
Value Mutual Funds: The test
¨ No excess returns?While the earliest studies of mutual funds looked at 
them as a group, and concluded that they collectively under performed 
the market, later studies have looked at mutual funds, grouped by 
category (small cap vs large cap, value vs growth) to see if fund managers 
in any of these groupings performed better than managers in other 
groupings. None of these studies have found any evidence that value fund 
managers are more likely to beat their index counterparts than their 
growth fund counterparts. 
¨ The Warren Buffett Card: It is telling that value investors, when asked to 
defend its capacity to add value to investing, almost never reference the 
research, partly because there is little that they can point to as supportive 
evidence, but instead fall back on Warren Buffett, as justification. As I 
noted in my last post, there is no doubt about Buffett's success over the 
decades, but as the man turned ninety this year, it is worth asking 
whether the continued use of his name is more a sign of weakness in 
value investing, rather than strength.
14
Value Investing: The Lost Decade
15
Active Value Investing in the lost decade
16
Even the legends of value investing lagged…
17
The COVID shock: A Chance for Value Investing?
¨ For much of the decade, value investors argued that 
their underperformance was a passing phase, driven by 
the success of growth and momentum and aided and 
abetted by the Fed, and that it value investing would 
come back with a vengeance in a crisis. 
¨ The viral shock delivered by the Corona Virus early this 
year seemed to offer an opportunity for value investing, 
with its emphasis on safety and earnings, to shine. 
¨ In the first few weeks, there were some in the value 
investing camp who argued that following old time value 
investing precepts and investing in stocks with low PE 
and Price to book ratios and high dividends would help 
buffer investors from downside risk.
18
COVID and PE/PBV
19
COVID and Dividends
20
Explanations: From most benign to most 
consequential
¨ This is a passing phase!
¤ Diagnosis: Even in its glory days, during the last century, there were extended periods (like the 1990s) when low PE 
and low PBV stocks underperformed, relative to high PE and high PBV stocks. 
¤ Prescription: Be patient. With time, value investing will deliver superior returns.
¨ The Fed did it!
¤ Diagnosis: With quantitative easing, the Fed and other central banks have contributed not only to keeping interest rates lower (than they
should be, given fundamentals) but also provided protection for risk taking at the expense of conservative investing.
¤ Prescription: Central banks cannot keep interest rates low in perpetuity, and even they do not have the resource to bail out risk takers 
forever. Eventually, the process will blow up, causing currencies to lose value, government budgets to implode and inflation and interest rates 
to rise. When that happens, value investors will find themselves less hurt than other investors.
¨ The Investment World has become flatter!
¤ Diagnosis:  As data has become easier to get, accounting more standardized and analytical tools more accessible, there is very little 
competitive advantage to computing ratios (PE, PBV, debt ratio etc.) from financial statements and running screens to find cheap stocks.
¤ Prescription: Value investors have to become creative in finding new screens that are either qualitative or go beyond the financial statements 
or in finding new ways of processing publicly accessible data to find undervalued stocks.
¨ The global economy has changed!
¤ Diagnosis: At the risk of sounding cliched, the shift in economic power to more globalized companies, built on technology and 
immense user platforms, has made many old-time value investing rostrums useless. 
¤ Prescription: Value investing has to adapt to the new economy, with less of a balance sheet focus and existing asset basis and 
more of a earnings/cash flow and growth basis.
21
Summing up..
¨ As the years of under performance have stretched on, there 
are fewer value investors who believe that this is a passing 
phase and that all is needed is patience. 
¨ There are many value investors who still blame the Fed (and 
other central banks) for their underperformance, and while I 
agree with them that central banks have sometimes over 
reached and skewed markets, I also think that this belief has 
become a convenient excuse for not looking at the very real 
problems at the heart of value investing. 
¨ However, and especially after the COVID experience, there 
are at least some value investors who are willing to consider 
the possibility that it is time to change the way we practice 
value investing.
