Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/UserEconomics.pdf

USER	AND	SUBSCRIBER	
ECONOMICS	II:	VALUE	
IMPLICATIONS
Losses,	Network	Effects	and	Growth!
2
My	“uncertain”	Uber	user	valuation
¨ Lots	of	assumptions:	My	Uber	user	valuation	was	based	
upon	assumptions	piled	on	top	of	assumptions.
¨ On	paltry	data:	Those	assumptions	were	based	upon	
noisy,	dated	and	second-hand	data.
¨ But	valuation	still	is	useful
¤ Much	of	the	uncertainty	is	coming	from	the	future,	not	from	the	
data.
¤ Even	a	noisy	valuation	model	can	be	used	to	derive	propositions	
about	value	(and	what	should	drive	value)
¤ Those	propositions	can	be	used	by	investors	(to	ask	the	right	
questions	of	companies)	and	by	managers	(to	make	the	trade	
offs	that	are	part	of	business).
3
1.	Estimation	versus	Economic	Uncertainty
¨ Estimation	uncertainty	comes	from	incomplete,	missing	or	
misleading	information	provided	by	the	company	that	you	are	
valuing.
¨ Economic	uncertainty	is	driven	by	forthcoming	changes	in	the	
business	that	the	company	operates	in,	as	well	as	macro	
economic	factors.
¨ The	first	can	be	reduced	by	obtaining	better	and	more	
complete	information	but	the	latter	will	remain,	no	matter	
how	time	you	put	in	and	data	analysis	that	you	do.
¨ With	Uber,	it	is	economic	uncertainty	that	is	the	dominant	
source.	So,	getting	better	information	from	Uber	(either	as	an	
investor	or	when	it	goes	public)	is	going	to	do	little	to	reduce	
uncertainty.
4
2.	Uncertainty	is	a	fact	of	life	(and	
business)
¨ Uncertainty	is	part	and	parcel	of	doing	business	and	
you	cannot	wish	it,	pray	it	or	analyze	it	away.	
¨ You	have	two	choices	when	it	comes	to	uncertainty.
¤ You	can	deal	with	it	frontally	by	making	explicit	
assumptions.	You	will	be	wrong	100%	of	the	time,	but	you	
will	be	able	to	see	where	you	are	wrong	and	adjust	your	
valuation.
¤ You	can	go	into	"denial"	model	and	make	implicit	
assumptions	about	variables.	When	pricing	by	looking	at	
what	others	are	paying	for	users	in	similar	companies,	you	
are	making	assumptions	about	all	of	the	variables	as	well,	
but	those	assumptions	are	implicit.
5
3.	Uncertainty	can	be	visualized
6
User	Cost	Propositions
• Profits	are	better	than	losses:	If	you	are	an	investor	in	a	
business,	you	would	rather	that	the	business	make	money	
than	lose	money.
• Young	companies	lose	money:	If	you	have	a	young	company,	
you	should	expect	the	company	to	make	losses,	even	if	it	is	a	
valuable	business.
• Not	all	losses	are	created	equal:	For	young	growth	
companies,	dependent	upon	users	or	subscribers,	there	are	
good	ways	to	lose	money	and	bad	ways	to	lose	money.
• Investor	beware:	To	invest	in	these	companies,	you	need	to	
know	why	they	lost	money,	not	just	how	much.
7
1.	Existing	User	versus	New	User	Costs
User	Value	Proposition	1:	A	money-losing	company	
that	is	losing	money	providing	service	to	existing	
users/customers	is	worth	less	than	a	company	with	
equivalent	losses,	where	the	primary	expenses	are	
coming	from	customer	acquisitions.
8
2.	Fixed	versus	Variable	Costs
¨ User	Value	Proposition	2:	A	company	whose	
expenses	are	primarily	fixed	(will	not	grow	with	
revenues)	will	be	worth	more	than	an	otherwise	
identical	company	whose	expenses	are	variable	
(track	revenues).
9
User	Growth	Propositions
• For	young	companies,	we	generally	view	growth	as	good	
and	reward	companies	with	higher	growth	rates	with	
higher	value.
• Not	all	growth	is	created	equal.	Some	growth	strategies	
create	more	value	than	others	and	some	may	even	
destroy	value.
• In	a	user	or	subscriber	based	model,	there	are	two	ways	
you	can	grow	your	revenues.	One	is	to	get	existing	users	
to	buy	more	or	your	product	or	service	or	perhaps	other	
products	and	services	that	you	come	up	with.	The	other	
is	by	trying	to	acquire	new	users.
10
1.	Growth	from	Existing	Users
11
2.	Growth	from	New	Users
12
Growth	Proposition
¨ User	Value	Proposition	3:	A	company	that	is	growing	
revenues	by	increasing	revenues/user	is	worth	more	
than	an	otherwise	similar	growth	company	that	is	
deriving	growth	from	increasing	the	number	of	
users/customers.
¨ Young	companies	face	trade	offs	and	the	question	of	
whether	to	allocate	resources	to	get	new	users	or	try	to	
sell	more	to	existing	users	is	one	of	those.	
¨ At	least	in	the	case	of	Uber,	the	numbers	seem	to	
indicate	that	if	you	have	to	put	priorities,	it	should	be	on	
getting	existing	users	to	use	the	service	more	than	to	
keep	looking	for	new	users.
13
User	Business	Propositions
¨ Looking	at	a	company	as	a	user	or	subscriber	based	
company	can	be	useful	in	deciphering	how	and	why	they	
make	the	strategic	and	business	choices	that	they	do.
¤ From	Buzz	words	to	value:	A	user-focus	can	help	us	make	sense	
of	the	focus	on	“big	data”	and	“networking	benefits”	that	many	
of	these	companies	have	and	link	them	more	directly	to	value.
¤ Revenue	Models:	A	user	focus	can	help	determine	what	type	of	
revenue	model	(subscription,	advertising	or	transaction)	will	
optimize	value	for	a	company.
¤ Real	Options:	Does	a	company	with	a	large	and	loyal	customer	
user	base	have	optionality	(leading	to	a	premium	being	added	to	
its	value)?	While	real	options	are	notoriously	difficult		to	value,	
in	this	context,	a	user	focus	can	give	us	direction.
14
1.	The	Great,	the	Good,	the	Bad	and	the	
Ugly!
15
Network	Benefits	and	Big	Data:	Keys	to	
being	exceptional
¨ User	Value	Proposition	4:	 The	exceptional	firm	will	be	
the	one	that	is	able	to	find	a	pathway	to	high	value	per	
user	and	a	low	cost	to	adding	a	new	user	in	a	market	
where	its	competitors	struggle	with	either	low	value	per	
user	or	high	costs	of	acquiring	users.
¨ The	keys	to	being	an	exceptional	user-based	company	lie	
in	utilizing:
¤ Network	Benefits,	to	reduce	your	cost	per	new	user,	as	you	get	
bigger .
¤ Big	Data that	you	have	accumulated	on	your	users	to	(a)	
customize	existing	products/services	to	meet	user	preferences,	
(b)	create	new	products	or	services	that	meet	perceived	user	
needs	or	(c)	for	differential	pricing
16
2.	Revenue	Models
Subscription Transaction Advertising
User	Stickiness	(User	life	&	
Renewal	Probability)
High	(High	life	&	
renewal	probability)
Intermediate	
(Intermediate	life	&	
renewal	probability)
Low	(Low	life	&	renewal	
probability)
Revenue	per	User	
Predictability	(Discount	
rate)
High	(Low	Discount	
Rate)
Low	Predictability	
(High	Discount	Rate)
Intermediate	(Average	
Discount	Rate)
Revenue	per	User	Growth	
(Annual	Growth	Rate)
Low	(Low	growth	rate	in	
revenues/user)
Low	(High	growth	rate	
in	revenues/user)
Intermediate	
(Intermediate	growth	
rate	in	revenues/user)
Growth	rate	in	users	(CAGR	
in	#	Users)
Low	(Low	CAGR	in	#	
users)
Intermediate	
(Intermediate	CAGR	in	
#	users)
High	(High	CAGR	in	#	
users)
Cost	of	adding	new	users	
(Cost/New	User)
High	(High	Cost/New	
User)
Intermediate	
(Middling	Cost/New	
User)
Low	(Low	Cost/New	
User)
17
The	“best”	revenue	model
¨ User	Value	Proposition	5:	 The	"optimal"	revenue	
model	will	vary	across	firms	depending	upon where	
they	are	in	the	life	cycle,	the	product	or	service	
offering	and	whether	they	are	focused	on	user	
growth,	revenue	growth	or	revenue	sustainability.
¨ An	advertising-based	model	will	allow	for	much	
more	rapid	growth	in	a	firm's	early	years,	a	
subscription-based	model	will	generate	more	
sustainable	growth	and	a	transaction-based	model	
has	the	greatest	potential	for	revenue	growth	from	
existing	users.
18
3.	Real	Options
19
The	Value	of	Optionality
¨ User	Value	Proposition	6:	The	value	of	optionality	
from	a	user	base	will	be	greatest	at	firms	with	lots	of	
sticky,	intense	users in	businesses	where	the future	
is	unpredictable because	of	changes	in	
product/service	technology	and	customer	tastes.
¨ The	value	of	a	real	option	comes	from	exclusivity,	
and	to	the	extent	that	you	have	sticky,	intense	users,	
you	have	a	base	that	you	can	use	to	experiment	with	
other	products	and	services,	with	the	value	scaling	
up	with	the	number	of	uses.
20
Bottom	Line
¨ The	most	direct	applications	of	a	user	or	subscriber	
based	model	is	in	the	valuation	of	companies	like	Uber,	
Facebook	and	Netflix.	
¨ That	said,	more	and	more	companies	are	seeing	benefits	
in	shifting	from	their	traditional	business	models	to	user-
based	ones.	Apple’s	billion	iPhone	users,	Amazon’s	
seventy	million	Prime	members	and	Microsoft’s	hundred	
million	365	users	are	all	giving	these	companies	their	
versions	of	user-based	models.
¨ Understanding	user	economics	is	key	to	investing	in	
these	companies	(valuing	or	pricing)	and	in	managing	
them.
