Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Google2018.pdf

ALPHABET SOUP: MOSTLY 
GOOGLE, BUT LOTS OF BETS!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Facebook Effects
¨ The Market Turns: In my last two posts, I looked first a the 
turn in the market against the FANG stocks, largely 
precipitated by the Facebook user data fiasco and then at the 
effect of the blowback on Facebook's value.
¨ Change is coming: I argued that changes are coming from 
both outside (regulators and legislation) and inside (to 
protect data better), and these changes are unlikely to be just 
directed at Facebook. 
¨ But is the write down justified? It is this perception that has 
probably led the market to mark down other companies that 
have built business models around user/subscriber data and 
in these next posts, I would like to look at the rest of the 
stocks in the FANG bundle and the consequences for their 
valuations, starting with Google in this one.
3
The One Number
¨ In a typical intrinsic valuation, there are dozens of inputs that 
drive value but there is one variable, that more than any 
other, drives value and it is critical to identify that variable 
early in the valuation process for two reasons:
1. Information Focus: Knowing the key value driver allows you 
to focus your information collection around that variable, 
rather than get distracted by the other inputs into value.
2. Management Questions: If you have the opportunity to 
question management, your questions can then also be 
directed at the key variable and what management is doing 
to deliver on that variable.
3. Disclosure Tracking: Having a focus allows you to zero in on 
the parts of the earnings report that are most relevant to 
value.
4
Finding the Value Driver: Key 
Characteristics
¨ Big Value Effects: Changing your key driver variable 
should have large effects on the value that you estimate 
for a business. One of the benefits of asking what-if 
questions about the inputs into a valuation is that it can 
allow you to gauge this effect.
¨ Uncertainty about Input: If an input has large effects on 
value, but you feel confident about it, it is not a driver 
variable. Conversely, if you have made an estimate of 
input and are uncertain about that number, because it 
can change either due to management decisions or 
because of external forces, it is more likely to be a driver 
input.
5
Implications
¨ Different across companies: The first is that the key 
value driver can and will be different for different 
companies; a mechanistic focus on the same input 
variable with every company that you value will lead 
you astray. 
¨ Investor Judgment: The second is that there is a 
subjective component to your choice, and the key 
value driver that I identify for a company can be 
different from the one you choose for the same 
company, reflecting perhaps the different stories 
that we may be telling in our valuations.
6
Google’s Market History
7
Google’s Operating History
8
The State of Play
Aswath Damodaran
8
1. Advertising Duopoly? Google and Facebook are 
converting online advertising and perhaps all of 
advertising into a duopoly. Each plays to different 
strengths and at least so far, they are getting 
revenues from other players, rather than each 
other .
2. Google is everywhere. It’s core business is its 
search engine, but that is supplemented with other 
products and services.
3. Alphabet is still mostly advertising, very little other 
businesses.
9
1. A Duopoly in Advertising
Aswath Damodaran
9
¨ Digital Advertising is becoming a larger slice of the 
advertising business: In 2017, the total spent on 
advertising globally was $584 billion, with digital 
advertising accounting for $228.4 billion. 
¨ GOOG and FB dominate: Google's market share in 2017 
was 42.2%, and Facebook's market share was 20.9%. 
¨ And are getting more dominant: Even more ominously 
for the rest of their competitors, they got bigger during 
the year, accounting for almost 84% of the increase in 
digital advertising during the course of the year, not 
counting China.
10
2. The Google Suite is expansive
¨ Not just a search engine: Google's hold on the game starts 
with its search engine, but has been enriched by its other 
products, Gmail, with more than a billion users, YouTube, 
which dominates the online video space and Android, the 
dominant smart phone operating system. 
¨ Broad reach: If you add to this Google shared documents and 
Google Home, the company is everywhere that you are, and 
is harvesting information about you at each step. 
¨ If you think Facebook knows a lot about you, you should find 
out what Google does: During the last week, a New York 
Times reporter downloaded the data that Facebook had on 
him and while what he found disturbed him, both in terms of 
magnitude and type, he found that Google had far more data 
on him than Facebook did.
11
3. Mostly Alpha, Very Little Bets
12
The Bottom Line
¨ Google has changed the advertising business and it 
dominates it, with Facebook representing its only 
serious competition. 
¤ It's large market share should act as a check on its growth, 
but Google has been able to still show growth by growing 
the digital portion of the advertising business and claiming 
the lion's share of that growth, again with Facebook. 
¤ The wild card is whether the data privacy restrictions and 
regulations that are coming will crimp one or both 
companies in their pursuit of ad revenues. 
¤ As digital advertising starts to level off, Google will have to 
look to its other businesses to provide it a boost.
13
The Google Story
¨ In valuing Google, I will assume that it will continue to 
grow, but I set the revenue growth rate at 12% for the 
next five years, below the 15% growth rate registered in 
the last five, for two reasons. 
¤ The first is that digital advertising's rise has started to slow, 
simply because it is now such a large part of the overall 
advertising market. 
¤ The second is that data privacy restrictions, if restrictive, will 
take away one of Google's network benefits. 
¨ I do think that the profitability of Google's businesses 
will stay intact over time, with operating margins staying 
at the 27.87% recorded in 2017.
15
Uncertainty Incorporated…
16
My Investment Judgment
¨ The median value is about $957 and at a stock price 
of $1,030, there is a 65% chance that the stock is 
over valued. 
¨ As with Facebook, there is a positive skew in the 
outcomes, and that skew will get only more positive, 
if you build in a bigger payoff from one of the bets. 
¨ I have never been a Google shareholder, and that 
has cost me over time, but this is as close as I have 
ever been to owning the stock. I have a limit buy at 
$950.
17
Google’s Value Driver
18
My Judgment
¨ In my judgment, Alphabet's bigger challenge is revenue 
growth, not margins, and it is that input that will cause 
its valuation to rise or fall.
¤ The downside: If the data privacy restrictions handicap 
Facebook and Google so badly that they lose a big part of what 
has allowed them to dominate digital advertising for the next 
five years, Google's revenue growth and value will drop 
dramatically. 
¤ The upside: However, Google is just starting to tap the potential 
in YouTube, and if it is able to position it as a competitor to 
Spotify, in music streaming, and Netflix, in video streaming, it 
could discover a new source of revenue growth, with strong 
operating margins.
