Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate6for2020.pdf

JANUARY 2020 DATA UPDATE 6: 
GROWTH, PROFITS & 
REINVESTMENT
Aswath Damodaran
2
Reminders of an age-old truth
¨ An age old truth: In an age, where scaling up and growth won 
over building business models and profitability as the most 
desirable business traits, it is worth stating the obvious. The 
measure of a good business is its capacity to generate not just 
profits but also to convert these profits into cash flows that 
investors can collect. 
¨ A Reminder: If we needed a reminder of this age-old premise, 
the last three weeks should have provided a reminder . 
¨ Rainy Day Buffer: If your concern is that the viral meltdown in 
markets will have significant negative economic 
consequences, in the short or the long term, the companies 
that have the most buffer will be best suited to not just 
survive them, but emerge stronger, and profitability is one 
key measure of that buffer.
3
Growth, Profits and Cash Flows
¨ The Scaling Factor: Growth plays the 'good guy' role, allowing small 
companies to become big, and big to become even bigger . While 
this growth rate can be computed on any metric, the metric that 
best reflects operating growth is revenue growth .
¨ The Profitability Driver : Growth, by itself, can only scale up a firm's 
operations and revenues, but for that scaling up to pay off, it has to 
be profitable. Again, while there are many measures of profitability, 
scaling profits to revenues to arrive at profit margins makes the 
most sense.
¨ The Reinvestment Lever : To grow, a company has to reinvest in 
capacity, in whatever form, which can drain cash flows. That 
reinvestment can be tied to earnings, as a retention ratio or 
a reinvestment rate, or tied to sales, as a sales to invested capital 
ratio.
4
A Generic Firm
5
Great versus Terrible Firms
6
Growth: Metrics
7
Growth: The Numbers - Industries
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Growth – The Regions
9
Growth and PE
10
Profit Margins - Measures
11
Profit Margins – Industries
12
Profit Margins - Regional
13
Reinvestment - Measures
14
Reinvestment Efficiency- Industries
15
Reinvestment Efficiency: Region
16
Excess Returns - Measures
17
Excess Returns: Global Picture
18
Excess Returns: Industries
19
Conclusion
¨ For a decade, we have glorified growth, often for its own 
sake, and let profitability fall to the wayside. 
¤ Growth has value only if it is accompanied by enough 
profitability to cover the capital that is invested to produce it.
¤ Even before the crisis hit, a large percentage, perhaps even the 
majority of global companies, were not profitable enough to 
create value from their investments. 
¨ Having a buffer on growth and profitability is going to 
mean the difference between survival and failure during 
crises, and seeking out firms that have that buffer is 
worth the trouble.
