Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/IntRates2026.pdf

Higher rates, lower value?
2
§In the last few weeks, interest rate worries have come up to the surface 
again, for three reasons, all related. 
§The first is the rise in long-term US treasury rates, especially the long-term 
treasuries to levels not seen in twenty years. 
§The second is US debt exceeding $40 trillion for the first time, bringing 
attention to a long-standing worry that this debt burden may be too high. 
§The third is a that the Federal Reser ve has a new chair in Kevin Warsh, and for 
the many Fed Watchers out there, who are uncertain about where he plans to lead 
the Fed, the FOMC meeting coming up in mid-September looms larger than ever.
§I hope to step back from the day-to-day coverage of US treasury yields and 
look at not only how they have performed in 2026, and put that 
performance in longer term perspective, but also examine movements 
in long terms yields in government bonds in other currencies. 
§I also intend to revisit a discussion that I initiated in 2022, when interest 
rates were the central act in markets, about the relationship between 
interest rates and stock prices, and why higher rates do not always 
translate into lower stock prices, and why that effect varies across sectors 
and companies.
3
§Governments borrow money and often do so by issuing 
bonds in financial markets. 
§The rates on these bonds reflect the concerns that lenders 
have about the purchasing power of the currencies that they 
are issued in, and government bond rates, for better or worse, 
become indicators that drive day-to-day market movements in 
almost all asset classes. 
§I will begin with an examination of US treasury rates before 
expanding the discussion to government bond rates in other 
currencies.
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
§Changes in government bond rates clearly play out in the 
pricing of government bonds, and returns you will earn on 
them, but the ripple effects play out across the rest of the 
market (financial and real). 
§I will start with the corporate bond market, where the interest 
rate effect is dominant, before looking at equities, where 
interest rate effects are more nuanced and at real assets, where 
the effects can be indirect.
13
14
15
16
§With revenues, the key determinants of how higher interest 
rates play out in value will depend first on why interest rates 
rose in the first place (higher inflation or higher real rates), and 
if it is higher inflation, how much pricing power a business 
has to pass through that inflation to its customers.
§With earnings, the question is how higher interest rates play 
out in profit margins, through their effects on costs of goods 
sold (gross), other operating expenses (operating) and interest 
expenses (net).
§When interest rates rise, and that rise is due more to real 
rates rising rather than inflation going up, businesses can 
scale back reinvestment, since fewer investments will 
generate the returns needed to pass muster. This reduction in 
reinvestment can increase near-term cashflows, at the expense 
of future growth.
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
§As we get closer to the FOMC meeting date, it is likely that there 
will more talk about interest rates, and what the Fed can or 
cannot do.  Much of that debate is pointless, since the pathway of 
rates is and will continue to be set by fundamentals. 
§In fact, the ten-year US treasury rate has been stuck in a fairly 
tight range, between 4% and 5%, since 2022, and that is largely 
because expected inflation has settled in at about 2.5%.  For rates 
to change significantly, up or down, there has to be a break in 
inflation expectations, to the up or downside, and there is little that 
Kevin Warsh or Scott Bessent can do to alter that trajectory. 
§As to how equity markets and businesses are dealing with higher 
rates, the pain from moving from a low-rate to a high-rate world 
was most acutely felt in 2022, and both have adapted quickly to 
the new environment, with businesses finding ways to deliver 
higher earnings in the face of higher rates, and markets 
pricing in these earnings to deliver solid returns. There are 
multiple links in that chain, and each one will be tested, with the 
third quarter earnings reports coming up in the next few weeks 
being the first test.
