Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/AramcoIPO.pdf

A COMING OUT PARTY FOR THE 
WORLD’S MOST VALUABLE 
COMPANY: THE ARAMCO IPO
Aswath Damodaran
2
Aramco: History
¨ Aramco’s beginnings trace back to 1933, when Standard Oil of 
California discovered oil in the desert sands of Saudi Arabia. Shortly 
thereafter, Texaco and Chevron formed the Arabian American Oil 
Company (Aramco) to develop oil fields in the country and the 
company also built the Trans-Arabian pipeline to deliver oil to the 
Mediterranean Sea. 
¨ In 1960, the oil producing countries, then primarily concentrated in 
the Middle East, created OPEC and in the early 1970s, the price of 
oil rose rapidly, almost quadrupling in 1973. 
¨ The Saudi Government which had been gradually buying Aramco’s 
assets, nationalized the company in 1980 and effectively gave it full 
power over all Saudi reserves and production. The company was 
renamed Saudi Aramco in 1988.
3
Aramco: Current Standing
¨ Lots of oil: In 2018, it was estimated that Aramco had in excess of 
330 billion barrels of oil and gas in its reserves, a quarter of all of
the world’s reserves, and almost ten times those of Exxon Mobil, 
the current leader in market cap, among oil companies. 
¨ Easy to extract: To add to the allure, oil in Saudi Arabia is close to 
the surface and cheap to extract, making it the most profitable 
place on oil to own reserves, with production costs of $20-$25 a 
barrel, well below the $40 costs that many other conventional oil 
producers, and even further below the new entrants into the game. 
¨ Big payoffs: Aramco produced 13.6 million barrels of oil &amp; gas 
every day in 2018, and reported revenues of $355 billion for the 
year, on which it generated operating income of $212 billion and 
net income of $111 billion.
4
Company, Country or extension of Saudi 
Royalty?
¨ Saudi Arabia Inc? Saudi Arabia is one of the wealthier 
countries in the world, on a per capital basis, and one of the 
20 largest economies, in terms of GDP , but it derives almost 
80% of that GDP from oil. Thus, a company that controls 
those oil spigots is a stand in for the entire country, and over 
the last few decades, it should not surprise you to learn that 
the Saudi budget is largely dependent on the cash flows it 
collects from Aramco. 
¨ House of Saud: The overlap between company and country 
becomes even trickier when you bring in the Saudi royal 
family, and close to absolute control of the country, which 
also means that Aramco’s fortunes are tied to the royal 
family’s powers. If there is a change in regime in Saudi Arabia, 
the terms laid out in the prospectus will be revisited.
5
The Consequences
¨ Corporate governance: There is no way that this company can or ever will 
be controlled by shareholders. The Saudi government is open about this, 
stating in its prospectus that “the Government will continue to own a 
controlling interest in the Company after the Offering and will be able to 
control matters requiring shareholder approval”.
¨ Country risk: Aramco has a few holdings and joint ventures outside Saudi 
Arabia, but this company is not only almost entirely dependent on Saudi 
Arabia but its corporate mission will keep it so. 
¨ Political risk: For decades, the Middle East has had more than its fair 
share of turmoil, terrorism and war, and while Saudi Arabia has been a 
relatively untouched part, it too is being drawn into the problem. On an 
even larger scale, the last decade has seen regime changes in many 
countries in the Middle East, with some occurring in countries, where the 
ruling class was viewed as insulated. The Saudi political order seems 
settled for the moment, with the royal family firmly in control, but that 
too can change, and quickly.
6
IPO Twists: Part 1
¨ Dividends: The company commits to paying at least $75 billion in 
dividends in 2020, with holders of shares issued in the IPO getting their 
share, and to maintaining these dividends through 2024. Beyond 2024, 
dividends will revert back to their normal discretionary status, with the 
board of directors determining the appropriate amount. 
¨ IPO Proceeds: The offering is not expected to be more than a couple of 
percent of the company. None of the proceeds from the IPO will remain in 
Aramco & will be redirected elsewhere, in pursuit of thegovernment’s
policy of making Saudi Arabia an economy less dependent on oil.
¨ Trading constraints: Once the offering is complete, the shares will be 
listed on the Saudi stock exchange and its size will make it the dominant 
listing overnight, and also subjecting it to the trading restrictions of the 
exchange, including a limit of a 10% movement in the stock price in a day; 
trading will be stopped if it hits this limit.
7
IPO Twists: Part 2
¨ Inducements for Saudi domestic investors: The Saudi government 
will give one bonus share, for every ten shares bought and held for 
six months, by a Saudi investor, with a cap at a hundred bonus 
shares.
¨ Corporate tax rate: The corporate tax rate will be 20% on taxable 
income on the downstream income, though tax rates on different 
income streams can be different. The Saudi government also 
imposes a Zakat, a levy on revenues, which is effectively a tax on 
income. In sum, these tax rate changes were already in effect in 
2018, and the company paid almost 48% of its taxable income in 
taxes that year.
¨ Royalties: The royalties on oil were reset ahead of the IPO and will 
vary, depending on the oil price, starting at 40% if oil prices are less 
than $70/barrel, increasing to 45% if they fell between $70 and 
$100, and becoming 80% if the oil price exceeds $100/barrel.
8
Pricing Aramco
¨ Early estimates: The initial attempts by the Saudi government to 
take Aramco public, came with a rumored expectation that the 
company would be “valued” at $2 trillion or more. 
¨ IPO pricing range: Much has been made about the fact that there 
seem to be wide divergences in how much bankers seem to think 
Aramco is worth, with numbers ranging from $1.2 billion to $2.3 
trillion, with Prince Mohammed, the crown prince, rumored to be 
hoping for $2 trillion. 
¨ Pricing, not valuations: Most of these numbers are not valuations, 
but instead represent pricings of Aramco, where assessment of 
price being made by looking at how the market is pricing publicly 
traded oil companies, relative to a metric, and extending that to 
Aramco, adjusting (subjectively) for its unique set up in terms of 
corporate governance, country risk and political risk.
9
The Sector: Integrated Oil
10
Pricing Aramco: A First Cut
11
Pricing Implications
¨ Book value & Sales: If you price Aramco based on its revenues of $356 
billion or on its book value of equity of $271 billion, its value looks 
comparable or slightly higher than the value of Exxon Mobil and Royal 
Dutch, the largest of the integrated oil companies.
¨ Income: That pricing is missing Aramco’s immense cost advantage, which 
allows it to generate much higher earnings from the same revenues. Thus, 
when you base the pricing on Aramco’s EBITDA of $224 billion, you can 
see the pricing rise to above a trillion and if you shift to Aramco’s net 
income of $111 billions, the pricing approaches $1.5 trillion.
¨ The pricing is highest when you focus on Aramco’s most valuable edge, its 
control of the Saudi oil reserves and its capacity to produce more oil than 
any other oil company in the world. If you base the pricing on the 10.3 
billion barrels of oil that Aramco produced in 2018, Aramco should be 
priced above $1.5 trillion and perhaps even closer to $2 trillion. If you 
base the pricing on the 265.9 billion barrels of proven reserves that 
Aramco controls for the next 40 years, Aramco’s pricing rises to sky high 
levels.
12
Pricing Caveats
¨ Production limits: Aramco not only does not own its 
reserves in perpetuity, with the rights reverting back to 
the Saudi government after 40 years, with the possibility 
of a 20-year extension, if the government decides to 
grant it, but Aramco is also restricted in how much oil it 
can extract from those reserves to 12 million barrels a 
year.
¨ Governance and Risk: We noted, earlier, that Aramco’s 
flaws: the government’s absolute control of it, the 
country risk created by its dependence on domestic 
production and the political risk emanating from the 
possibility of regime change.
13
The Country/Governance Discount for 
Russian Oil
14
Valuing Aramco: General Assumptions
¨ In US $: I will do my valuation in US dollars, rather than Saudi Riyals, since 
as a commodity company, revenues are in dollars and the company 
reports its financials in US dollars (as well as Riyal). This will also allow me 
to evade tricky issues related to the Saudi Riyal being pegged to the US 
dollar though the reverberations from the peg unraveling will be felt in 
the operating numbers. 
¨ Expected Inflation: I will use an expected inflation rate of 1.00% in US 
dollars, representing a rough approximation of the difference between 
the US treasury bond rate and the US TIPs rate. 
¨ Equity Risk: I will use the equity risk premium of 6.23% for Saudi Arabia, 
representing about a 0.79% premium over my estimate of a mature 
market premium of 5.44% at the start of November 2019. 
¨ Life: I will use a 50-year growth period, representing the fact that the 
company's primary asset, its oil reserves, are not infinite and will run out 
at some point in time, even if additional reserves are discovered.
15
Valuing Aramco: Promised Dividends
16
Valuing Aramco: Potential Dividends
17
Valuing Aramco: As a business
18
Valuation Afterthoughts
¨ Political Risk: I have used the default spread of the country as a proxy for the 
Saudi equity risk premium, but that misses the risk of regime change, a 
discontinuous risk that will have very large and potentially catastrophic effects on 
value. While that risk may seem low, it is definitely not zero.
¨ Upside limits : The royalty structure that the Saudi government has created, where 
the royalty rate will climb from 40% at current oil prices to 45% if they rise above 
$ 70 and 80% if they rise above $100/barrel will mean that your share, as an 
equity investor , of the benefits of higher oil prices will be capped, dampening the 
value today.
¨ Price setter/taker: Aramco has more influence on the oil price than any of them, 
as a result of Saudi Arabia's role in the oil market. Put simply, while the power of 
the Saudi government to set oil prices has decreased from the 1970s, it does 
continue to wield more influence than any other entity in this process.
¨ Value Effect: The first two factors are clear negatives and should lead you to mark 
down the value of Aramco, the third factor may help provide some downside 
protection. Overall, I would expect the value of equity in Aramco to be closer to 
$1.5 trillion than $1.7 trillion, after these adjustments are made.
19
IPO Details and Thoughts
¨ Over the weekend, we got a little more clarity on the IPO 
details, with a rumored pricing of $1.7 trillion for the 
company's equity and a planned offering of 1.5% of the 
outstanding shares. 
¨ That price is within shouting distance of my valuation, 
and my guess is that given the small size of the offering 
(at least on a percentage basis), it will attract enough 
investors to be fully subscribed. 
¨ At this pricing, I think that the company will be more 
attractive to domestic than international investors, with 
Saudi investors, in particular, drawn to the company's 
reputation.
20
Good investment
¨ It will be a solid investment, as long as investors 
recognize what they are getting is more bond than stock, 
with dividends representing the primary return and 
limited price appreciation. 
¤ They will have no say in how the company is run, and if they 
don't like the way it is run, they can vote with their feet. 
¤ If they are worried about risk, the research they should do is 
more political than economic, with the primary concerns about 
regime stability. 
¨ If you are a Saudi investor, with your human capital and 
real estate already tied to Saudi Arabia's (and oil's) well 
being, investing your wealth in Aramco will be doubling 
down on that dependence.
21
Not for me…
¨ Aramco is not a stock for me for two reasons. 
¤ I am lucky enough not to be dependent on cash flows from my investment portfolio 
to meet personal liquidity needs, and have no desire to receive large dividends, just 
for the sake of reaching them, since they just create a concurrent tax burden. 
¤ Second, if I were tempted to invest in the company as a play on oil prices, the rising 
royalty rates, as oil prices go up, imply that my upside will be limited at Aramco.
¨ This company will be the ultimate politically incorrect investment, 
operating both as a long-term bet on oil, in a world where people are as 
dependent as ever on fossil fuels, but are repelled by those who produce 
it, and as a bet on Saudi royalty, an unpopular institution in many circles. 
¨ I don't much care for political correctness nor for investors who seem to 
believe that the primary purpose of investing is virtue signaling, and I 
must confess that I am tempted to buy Aramco just to see their heads 
explode. However, that would be both petty and self-defeating, and I will 
stay an observer on Aramco, rather than an investor.
