Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/EquitiesOct2023.pdf

A TALE OF TWO MARKETS: 
EXUBERANCE VERSUS 
EXHAUSTION!
Groundhog Day!
2
A Tale of Two Markets…
¨We started 2023 with significant uncertainty about whether 
the surge in inflation seen in 2022 would persist as well as 
about whether the economy was headed into a recession. 
¤In the first half of the year, we had positive surprises on both fronts, as 
inflation dropped and the economy stayed resilient, allowing for a 
comeback on stocks, which I wrote about in a post in July 2023. 
¤That recovery notwithstanding, uncertainties remaining about inflation 
and the economy remained unresolved, and those uncertainties 
became part of the market story in the third quarter of 2023.
¤In July and the first half of August of 2023, it looked like the market 
consensus was solidifying around a soft-landing story, with no 
recession and inflation under control, but that narrative developed 
cracks in the second half of the quarter, with markets giving back gains.
3
1A. Treasury Rates
4
1B. US Stocks
5
1C. A SectorBreakdown
6
1D. And a regional breakdown..
7
2A. ThePriceofRisk-BondMarket
8
2B. The Price of Risk -Equities
9
3A.RiskCapital–AnIPOMetric
10
3B. Risk Capital –A VC Metric
11
3C. Risk Capital –A Bond Issuance Metric
12
Risk Capital –Summing up
¨Looking across the risk capital metrics, it looks like 
notwithstanding the recovery we have seen in 
equities this year, risk capital is still on the side lines, 
perhaps because that recovery is concentrated in 
large and money-making companies. 
¨Until you start see stock market gains widen and 
include smaller, money-losing companies, it is 
unlikely that we will see bounce backs in the venture 
capital and high-yield bond markets. 
¨Even when that recovery comes, I believe that we 
will not return to the excesses of the last decade.
13
4A. Macro Concerns:The Economy
14
AndRecessionProbabilities…
15
4B. Macro Concerns -Inflation
16
Valuing theIndex
17
My Market Assessment
¨Myassessmentisabitofacop-out,though,sinceyour
viewsaboutinflationandtheeconomycancauseyouto
arriveatadifferentvalue.
¤Thus,ifyouexpectinflationtoreappear,youshouldexpectto
seetreasuryratestocontinuerisingto5%orabove,andthat
willgiveyoualowerintrinsicvalue.Ifyourconcerniswiththe
economygoingintoasevererecession,thatwouldtranslateinto
lowerearningsnumbers,atleastinthenearterm,andalower
intrinsicvalue.
¤Conversely,ifyoubelievethatinflationwilldissipatequickly,
causingratestodrop,andthattheeconomyisheadedforasoft
landing,youwillgetahigherintrinsicvalue.
18
5B. Valuing the Index -Uncertainties
