Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ZomatoDIY.pdf

ZOMATO, ZOMATO: A DIY 
VALUATION OF ZOMATO!
Stories and Numbers
2
The Lead in…
¨Just over a week ago, I valued Zomato ahead of its market debut 
and as with almost every valuation that I do on this forum, I heard 
from many of you. 
¤Some of you felt that I was being far too generous in my assumptions 
about market share and profitability, and that I was over valuing the 
company. 
¤Many others argued that I was understating the growth in the Indian food 
market and the company's potential to enter new markets, and thus 
undervaluing the company, a point that the market made even more 
emphatically by pricing the stock at about three times my estimated value. 
¤A few of you posited that I was missing the point entirely, and that Zomato 
is a trader's game, and that there are plenty of reasons for traders to be 
optimistic about its prospects.
¨In this post, rather than impose my story (and value) on you, I offer 
a template for telling your own story about Zomato, and arriving at 
your own value.
3
The Prelude
¨After I posted my valuation last week, I did find some of 
the portrayals of what I had found to be a little 
unsettling. 
¨Each notification started by describing me as some kind 
of valuation luminary, and then proceeding to report my 
valuation as the result of deep research.
¤First, there is nothing in valuation that merits the use of 
“expert” or “guru” as a descriptor, since it is for the most part, 
common sense, layered with a few valuation basics. 
¤Second, while valuation practitioners have created their own 
buzzwords to create an aura of mystery, and added complexities, 
often with no reason other than to intimidate outsiders, I 
believe that anyone should be able to value a company, as I 
hope to show later in this post.
4
Good companies? Good Investments?
5
Investment Advice?
¨I value companies for an audience of one, and that 
audience member is very forgiving and understanding, 
because I see him in the mirror every day. 
¨It has always been my belief that as investors, each of us 
needs to take ownership of our investment decisions, 
and that buying or selling a company because someone 
else is doing so, even if that person has legendary 
credentials, is a dereliction of investment due diligence. 
¨Thus, if you find Zomato to be cheap and buy it, I have 
no desire to talk you out of your decision, since it is your 
money that you are investing, and that decision should 
be based upon your assessment of the company’s 
prospects, not mine.
6
Story to Numbers: The Steps
7
And the feedback loop…
¨ Talk to a diverse audience: We live in a world of specialization, and we have created 
workplaces, where these single-subject specialists often interact entirely with each other, 
making their isolation almost complete. I am lucky that I am able to interact with people 
with very different backgrounds (bankers, VCs, founders, CFOs, regulators), from different 
geographies and with very different perspectives, through my teaching and writing.
¨ Transparency over opacity: I would rather be transparently wrong than opaquely right. 
Consequently, when I value companies, I try to take a stand on value and be be open about 
process, data and mechanics, so that anyone can not just replicate what I did, but find their 
own points of disagreement and reflect those changes in value. I am also well aware of the 
risk that by putting out valuation details, I could be proven wrong in the future, but I like the 
accountability that comes with disclosure.
¨ Listen to those who disagree with you: On every company that I value, I know that there are 
people out there who know more than I do about some aspect of the company (its products, 
market or competition), and I can learn from them. 
¨ Be willing to change: The three most freeing words in investing and valuation are “I was 
wrong” , and I would be lying if I said it comes easily to me. That said, it does come more 
easily now that I have had practice saying it, and while some view it as an admission of 
weakness, I think it releases you to tell a better, and sometimes different, story.
8
Feedback on Zomato
¨ Indian food delivery: I have learned more about online food delivery and 
restaurants in India in the two weeks since I posted my Zomato valuation. I have 
learned why Zomato Pro has not caught on as quickly as the company thought it 
would, why some of you prefer Swiggyand even what you like to order from 
restaurants.
¨ Tax rate: Some of you noted that the corporate tax rate in India is 25%, not 30%, 
and while the Indian tax code with its predilection to add in surcharges that seem 
to last forever, and exceptions, does still leave me confused, I will concede on this 
point (pushing up my value per share marginally from 41 INR/share to about 43 
INR/share. 
¨ Market size: I have had pushback on my story’s focus on Indian food delivery, with 
some pointing to the potential for Zomato to expand its market globally and 
others to the expansion possibilities in Indian grocery deliveries and from cloud 
kitchens. While I believe that the networking advantage that works to Zomato’s 
benefits will stymie them if they try to expand to large foreign markets and that 
the grocery delivery market, at least for the moment, offers too small a slice of 
revenues to be a game changer for the company, those are legitimate points.
9
A DIY Valuation of Zomato
¨In the pages that follow, I will list out the choices on 
the key inputs driving Zomato’s valuation, and the 
story line behind each choice.
¨I will highlight the choice I made, but I would like you 
to pick your own on each dimension.
¨Once you have made your choices, I have done the 
plumbing to convert your choices into cash flows 
and value.
10
1a. TAM
11
1b. Growth Acceleration
Aswath Damodaran
11
12
2. Market Share
13
3. Revenue Slice
14
4a. Operating Margin
15
4b. Pathway to Profitability
16
5. Reinvestment
17
6. Cost of Capital -Perspective
18
6. Your cost of capital & failure risk
The cost of capital captures operating risk, but it is not a good device to 
reflect failure risk, i.e., the chance that your company will not make it. In 
my base case, I assumed a 10% chance of failure, which you can change.
19
Possible, Plausible and Probable
20
Checking your story
¨As you navigate your way through the choices, you may be 
tempted as an optimist to go with the most positive (for 
Zomato's value) choices on each variable (biggest market, 
highest market share, highest margin, lowest cost of capital) 
or the most negative (smallest market, lowest market share, 
lowest margin, highest cost of capital).
¤In fact, the former if often labeled a "best case" and the latter a 
"worst case" valuation, when in fact, neither passes the 
possible/plausible/probable test, since assuming that you will go after 
the biggest market will mean accepting lower margins and higher 
reinvestment. 
¤Thus, I could tell you that the best case value is₹423 and that my 
worst case value is₹0, but that would be both useless and misleading. 
That said, you can already see, no matter what your priors, that there 
is a whole range of stories for Zomato that pass the test, and that they 
can yield values per share that are very different
21
Plausible Stories
22
Playing the Zomato Game
¨If enough buyers line up to buy Zomato shares, perhaps drawn to it 
by the success of others, there is no reason why the price cannot 
continue to rise, no matter what the value. I don't disagree with 
that sentiment, and it goes back to the contrast I draw not just 
between value and price, but between investing and trading. 
¤As an investor, I am having trouble finding a pathway to justify paying 140 
INR per share, for Zomato, even with the most upbeat stories that I come 
up with, for the company. That may of course reflect a failure of 
imagination on my part, and you may be able to find a narrative for the 
company that allows you to invest in the company. 
¤As a trader, the question of whether you should buy Zomato comes down 
squarely to whether you are good at playing the momentum game, 
knowing when to get on, and more importantly, when to get off. For you, 
the value of Zomato may be irrelevant, and you will need a different set of 
metrics (charts, price and volume indicators) to make your decisions.
