Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CashBurn.pdf

THE	BONFIRE	OF	VC:	CASH	BURN,	
THE	GOOD,	THE	BAD	&	THE	UGLY
Burn,	baby,	burn!
2
Start	with	cash	flow
3
The	basis	for	cash	burn
4
Cash	Burn	Measures
¨ Cash	Burn:	This	is	a	measure	of	cash	that	a	company	
burns	through,	stated	as	a	function	of	time.	Thus,	a	
company	that	starts	the	year	with	a	cash	balance	of	
$	1	billion	and	ends	with	a	cash	balance	of	$400	
million,	has	a	cash	burn	of	$50	million	a	month	
(assuming	that	it	raised	no	new	capital	during	the	
period).
¨ Cash	Runway:	This	is	the	amount	of	time	that	a	
company	has	before	it	runs	out	of	cash,	given	its	
current	cash	balance	and	its	cash	burn.
5
Cash	Burn:	The	Why?
6
Cash	Burn:	What	next?
¨ If	cash	burn	is	a	feature	of	young	companies,	not	a	
bug,	you	may	be	tempted	to	not	just	ignore	it	but	
wear	it	as	a	badge	of	honor.
¨ That	would	be	dangerous,	since	cash	burn	can	be	
benign	in	some	young	companies	and	malignant	in	
others.
7
The	Benign	Scenario
8
The	Malignant	Scenario
9
Cash	Burn:	So	what?
¨ Dilution	Effect:	A	company	has	to	raise	cash	to	burn	through	it	and	
if	that	cash	is	raised	from	fresh	equity,	as	it	inevitably	has	to	be	for	
young	growth	companies,	the	existing	owners	of	the	business	will	
have	to	give	up	some	of	their	ownership	of	the	company.	
¨ The	Capital	Markets	Effect :	A	company	that	is	burning	through	cash	
is	far	more	dependent	on	capital	markets	staying	open	and	
accessible.	If	capital	dries	up,	two	effects	can	unfold:	
¤ Growth	Effect:	The	best	case	scenario	for	the	 firm	is	that	it	is	able	to	rein	in	
discretionary	spending	 until	capital	becomes	available	again.	In	the	
meantime,	though,	the	company	will	have	to	scale	back	its	growth	plans.
¤ Distress	Effect:	The	more	dangerous	consequence	of	capital	drying	up	for	a	
young	firm	with	negative	free	cash	flows	Is	that	the	firm’s	survival	is	put	at	
risk.
10
The	Intrinsic	Value	Response
¨ The	dilution	effect	manifests	itself	as	negative	cash	
flows	in	the	early	years	and	a	drop	in	the	present	
value	of	cash	flows.	
¨ To	capture	the	capital	market	effect,	you	can	adjust	
the	valuation	in	two	ways.	
¤ The	first	is	by	putting	a	cap	on	how	much	new	capital	the	
firm	can	raise	each	year,	which	will	also	operate	as	a	
constraint	on	future	growth.	
¤ The	other	is	by	allowing	for	a	probability	that	the	firm	will	
fail,	either	because	capital	markets	shut	down	or	cash	
flows	are	more	negative	than	expected.
11
The	Cash	Burn	Effect	at	Uber
12
The	Pricing	Response
13
Investor	Checklist
¨ Understand	why	the	company	is	burning	through	cash:	The	most	benign	scenario	is	one	where	a	
money	making	company	reports	negative	cash	flows	because	of	large	reinvestment.	The	most	
dangerous	combination	is	a	money	losing	company	that	reinvests	very	little,	since	there	is	little	
potential	for	a	growth	payoff	and	management	will	be	helpless	if	capital	freezes	up.
¨ Diagnose	the	operating	business:	The	most	benign	scenario	is	one	where	the	company	has	
significant	pricing	power	and	a	cost	structure	that	benefits	from	scale.
¨ Gauge	management	skills:	 The	best	case	scenario	for	investors	is	that	the	company	is	run	by	a	
management	team	that	works	within	the	cash	flow	constraints	of	today	while	mapping	out	
pathways	to	profitability	over	time.	The	worst	case	scenario	is	that	the	company	is	managed	by	
those	who	view	negative	cash	flows	as	a	badge	of	honor	and	a	sign	of	growth	rather	than	a	
temporary	problem	to	overcome.
¨ Growth/Reinvestment	trade	off:	In	its	most	value-creating	form,	reinvestment	will	generate	high	
growth	coupled	with	high	returns	and	its	most	value-destructive	form,	reinvestment	will	drain	cash	
flows	while	generating	low	growth	and	poor	profits.
¨ Capital	Market A	firm	with	a	cash	burn	problem	is	more	depending	upon	capital	markets	for	its	
survival,	since	a	closing	of	these	markets	may	be	sufficient	to	put	the	firm	into	receivership.
14
The	Bottom	Line
¨ To	value	investors	who	view	cash	burn	as	an	
automatic	sign	of	a	death	spiral.	Chill!	It	is	more	an	
indication	of	where	a	company	is	in	its	life	cycle	than	
a	sign	of	company	quality.
¨ To	VCs	and	founders	who	present	cash	burn	as	not	
just	a	natural	phenomenon	but	a	sign	of	good	things	
to	come.	Stop!	A	company	that	is	run	to	maximize	
cash	burn	will	accomplish	that	objective	just	before	
it	runs	into	the	ground.
