Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate4for2020.pdf

DATA UPDATE 4: COUNTRY RISK 
AND CURRENCY QUESTIONS
Risky Countries? Risky Currencies?
2
Country Risk and Value
¨ In my last post, I looked at the risk premiums in US markets, 
and you may have found that focus to be a little parochial, 
since as an investor, you could invest in global markets, if you 
believed that you would receive a better risk-return trade off 
there. 
¨ For some investors, in countries with investment restrictions, 
the only investment options are domestic and US investment 
options may not be within their reach. I
¨ In this session, I want to first talk about country risk, and how 
it affects investment decisions not only on the part of 
individual investors but also of companies, and then address 
the currency question, which is often conflated with country 
risk, but has a very different set of fundamentals and 
consequences.
3
Why Risk varies across countries
¨ Life Cycle: Countries go through their own version of the life cycle, with developed and 
more mature markets having more settled risk profiles than emerging economies 
which are still growing, changing and generally more risky. High growth economies 
tend to also have higher volatility in growth than low growth economies.
¨ Political Risk: A political structure that is unstable adds to economic risk, by making 
regulatory and tax law volatile, and adding unpredictable costs to businesses. While 
there are some investors and businesses that believe autocracies and dictatorships 
offer more stability than democracies, I believe that autocracies do offer more 
temporal stability but they are also more exposed to more discontinuous change.
¨ Legal Risk: Countries with dysfunctional legal systems will create more risk for investors 
than countries where the legal systems works well and in a timely fashion.
¨ Economic Structure: Some countries have more risk exposure simply because they are 
overly dependent on an industry or commodity for their prosperity, and an industry 
downturn or a commodity price drop can send their economies into a tailspin.
4
Measuring Country Risk: Country Risk Scores
¨ There are services that measure country risk with scores, 
trying to capture exposure to all of the risks listed above. 
¨ The scores are subjective judgments and are not quite 
comparable across services, because each service scales 
risk differently. 
¤ The World Bank provides an array of governance indicators 
(from corruption to political stability) for 214 countries 
(https://databank.worldbank.org/source/worldwide -
governance-indicators#) 
¤ Political Risk Services (PRS) measures a composite risk score for 
each country, with low (high) scores corresponding to high (low) 
country risk.
2nd column: Moody’ s Local Currency Rating (Dec 2019)
3rd column: Sovereign 10-yr CDS in Dec 2019
Rating & Sovereign CDS : 
Jan 2020
Aswath Damodaran
6
Measuring Country Risk Premium
Black #: Total ERP
Red #: Country risk premium
AVG: GDP weighted average
ERP : Jan 2020
Aswath Damodaran
8
Company Risk Exposure: Revenues
¨ Put simply, the exposure to country risk does not 
come from where a company is incorporated or 
where it is traded, but from its operations.
¨ For a company like Coca Cola, where production 
costs are low and facilities can be moved, you can 
base it on revenues:
9
Company Risk Exposure: Production
¨ For companies where production costs are higher and 
facilities are less moveable, your weights for countries should 
at least partially based on production. At the limit, with 
natural resource companies, the operating exposure should 
be based upon where it produces those resources.
10
Bringing in Currencies
¨ When the discussion turns to country risk, it almost always veers 
off into currency risk, with many conflating the two, in their 
discussions. While there are conditions where the two are 
correlated and draw from the same fundamentals, it is good to 
keep the two risks separate, since how you deal with them can also 
be very different.
¨ With currencies, it is very easy to get distracted by experts with 
macro views, providing their forecasts with absolute certainty, and 
distractions galore, from governments keeping their currencies 
stronger or weaker and speculative trading. 
¨ To get past this noise, I w ill draw  on the intrinsic interest rate 
equation that I used in my last post to explain why interest rates in 
the United States have stayed low for the last decade,
¤ Intrinsic Riskfree Rate = Inflation + Real GDP Growth
11
Risk free Rates
¨ There are a few dozen governments that issue ten -year bonds in their 
local currencies, and the search for risk free rates starts there. 
¨ To the extent that these governm ent bonds are liquid and you perceive no 
default risk in the government, you can use the government bond rate as 
your risk free rate. It is that rationale that we use to justify using the Swiss 
Government’s Swiss Franc 10 -year rate as the risk free rate in Swiss Francs 
and the Norwegian government’s ten -year Krone rate as the riskfree rate 
in Krone. 
¨ When the government is perceived as having default risk, I compute a risk 
free rate by netting out the default spread:
¤ Riskfree Rate in currency = Government bond rate – Default Spread for sovereign 
local-currency rating
¨ Using this approach on the Indian rupee and the Brazilian reai,
¤ Riskfree Rate in Rupees on January 1, 2020 = Indian Government Rupee Bond rate 
on January 1, 2020 – Default spread based on Baa2 rating = 6.56% - 1.59% = 4.95%
12
Government Bond Rate based Risk free Rates
13
Synthetic Risk Free Rates
¨ If you have doubts about one or more of three assumptions 
needed to use the government-bond approach to getting to 
risk free rates, there is an alternative that I will call my 
synthetic riskfree rate. 
¨ To use this approach, let ’s start with a currency in which you 
feel comfortable estimating a risk free rate, say the US dollar. 
If the key driver of risk free rates is expected inflation, the risk 
free rate in any other currency can be estimated using the 
differential inflation between that currency and the US dollar .
14
Useful in these contexts
¨ Currencies with no government bonds outstanding : There are more than 
120 currencies, where there are no government bonds in the local 
currency; the country borrows from banks and the IMF , not from markets. 
Without a government bond rate, the approach described above becomes 
moot.
¨ Currencies where the government bond rate is not trustworthy : There are 
currencies where there is a government bond, with a rate, but an absence 
of liquidity and/or the presence of institutions being forced to buy the 
bond by the government that may make the rates untrustworthy. 
¨ Pegged Currencies: There are some currencies that have been pegged to 
the US dollar, either for convenience (much of the Middle East) or stability 
(Ecuador). While analysts in these markets often use the US T.B o n drate 
as the risk free rate, there is a very real danger that what is pegged today 
may be unpegged in the future, especially when the fundamentals don't 
support the peg.
15
Currency Choice in Investing and Valuation
¨ If you are consistent about dealing with inflation in 
your valuation, the value should be the same in 
every currency.
16
Currency Miscalculations
¨ Casual Dollarization : In casual dollarization, you start by estimating your 
costs of equity and capital in US dollars, partly because you do not want 
to or cannot estimate risk free rates in a local currency. You then convert 
your expected future cash flows in the local currency and convert them to 
dollars using the current exchange rate. 
¨ Corporate hurdle rates: I have long argued against computing a corporate 
cost of capital and using it as a hurdle rate on investments and 
acquisitions, and that argument gets even stronger, when the investments 
or acquisitions are cross -border and in different currencies. 
¨ Mismatched Currency Frames of Reference : We all have frames of 
reference that are built into our thinking, based upon where we live and 
the currencies we deal with. Consequently, it behooves us to be explicit 
about currencies, when talking about growth rates and costs of capital.
17
In closing..
¨ I looked at two variables, country and currency, that are 
often conflated in valuation, perhaps because risky 
countries tend to have volatile currencies, and separated 
the discussion to examine the determinants of each, and 
why they should not be lumped together . 
¨ I can invest in a company in a risky country, and I can 
choose to do the valuation in US dollars, but only if I 
recognize that the currency choice cannot make the 
country risk go away. 
¨ In other words, a Ukranian or Guatamelan company will 
stay risky, even if you value it in US dollars, and a 
company that gets all of its revenues in Northern Europe 
will stay safe, even if you value it in Russian Rubles.
