Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/country/NoiseMotleyFool.pdf

LIVING WITH NOISE:
INVESTING AND VALUATION IN 
THE FACE OF UNCERTAINTY
Aswath Damodaran
http://www.damodaran.com
Aswath Damodaran 1
2
Uncertainty is a feature, not a bug.
Aswath Damodaran
2
3
And we deal with uncertainty as humans 
always have…
¨Paralysis & Denial: When faced with uncertainty, some of us get 
paralyzed. Accompanying the paralysis is the hope that if you close 
your eyes to it, the uncertainty will go away
¨Mental short cuts (rules of thumb): Behavioral economists note that 
investors faced with uncertainty adopt mental short cuts that have 
no basis in reality. And here is the clincher. More intelligent people 
are more likely to be prone to this.
¨Herding: When in doubt, it is safest to go with the crowd..  The 
herding instinct is deeply engrained and very difficult to fight.
¨Outsourcing: Assuming that there are experts out there who have 
the answers does take a weight off your shoulders, even if those 
experts have no idea of what they are talking about.
¨Divine Intervention: Praying for intervention from a higher power is 
the oldest and most practiced risk management system of all.
Aswath Damodaran
3
Categorizing uncertainty
5
I. Estimation versus Economic Uncertainty
¨Estimation versus Economic uncertainty
¤Estimation uncertainty reflects the possibility that you could 
have the “wrong model”or estimated inputs incorrectly within 
this model.
¤Economic uncertainty comes from real sources: that markets 
and economies can change over time and that even the best 
medals will fail to capture these unexpected changes.
¨Estimation uncertainty can be mitigated by doing your 
homework, collecting more data or building better 
models, but economic uncertainty is here to stay.
6
II. Micro versus Macro Uncertainty
¨Micro uncertainty versus Macro uncertainty
¤Micro uncertainty refers to uncertainty about the firm you are 
valuing and its business model -the potential market or markets 
for its products, the competition it will face and the quality of its 
management team.
¤Macro uncertainty reflects the reality that your firm’s fortunes 
can be affected by changes in the macro economic environment 
–the strength of the economy, the level of interest rates and the 
price of risk (equity and debt).
¨Micro uncertainty can be mitigated or even eliminated 
by diversifying across companies but macro uncertainty 
will remain even in the most diversified portfolios.
7
III. Discrete versus Continuous Uncertainty 
¨Discrete versus continuous uncertainty
¤Some events that you are uncertain about are discrete. Thus, a 
biotechnology firm with a new drug working its way through the 
FDA pipeline may see the drug fail at some stage of the approval 
process. In the same vein, a company in Venezuela or Argentina 
may worry about nationalization risk.
¤Most uncertainties, though, are continuous. Thus, changes in 
interest rates or economic growth occur continuously and affect 
value as they happen. 
¨In valuation, we are better at dealing with continuous 
risks than with discrete risks. In fact, discount rate risk 
adjustment models are designed for continuous risk.
Uncertainty: A Reality Check
1. Uncertainty evolves as companies age
10
And they show up in business drivers
Aswath Damodaran
10
Aswath Damodaran11
‹#›Aswath Damodaran12
‹#›Aswath Damodaran13
14
2. The Macro Part of Company Valuation
Aswath Damodaran
14
What are the 
cashﬂows from 
existing assets?
- Equity: Cashﬂows 
after debt payments
- Firm: Cashﬂows 
before debt payments
What is the value added by growth  assets?
Equity: Growth in equity earnings/ cashﬂows
Firm: Growth in operating earnings/ 
cashﬂows
How risky are the cash ﬂows from both 
existing assets and growth assets?
Equity: Risk in equity in the company
Firm: Risk in the ﬁrm’s operations
When will the ﬁrm 
become a mature 
ﬁirm, and what are 
the potential 
roadblocks?
General 
Inflation
Overall Economic 
Growth
Exchange 
Rates
Relative 
Inflation
Risk free Interest Rate Risk Premiums for equity & debt
Political 
Risk
15
a. Discount Rates
¨The discount rate that you use on a cash flow will reflect the risk of 
that cash flow, but the overall level is affected by macro economic 
variables. There are two key macro components to discount rates 
that have little to do with the asset that you are valuing and are set 
by the market.
¨The first is the riskfree rate, that is the base for your discount rate. 
¤Risk free rate = Expected Inflation + Expected Real Interest Rate
¤The expected inflation will be a function of the currency you choose to do 
your analysis in
¤The expected real interest rate is set by the demand for & supply of capital 
in the real economy. It should increase if growth is expected to be robust 
and decrease if growth is anticipated to be anemic.
¨The second is the risk premium that investors charge for investing 
in equity markets (the equity risk premium) or for lending money 
(default spreads).
Aswath Damodaran
15
16
Interest Rates in 2022
17
Equity Risk Premiums
18
b. Expected growth and cash flows
¨The expected cash flows on an asset or company are 
determined partly by the company’s choices and partly 
by macro variables. 
¤Thus, the earnings growth for a company will be higher, other 
things remaining equal, if the economy grows faster .
¤In the same vein, earnings and cash flows will be affected (and 
not always by the same amount) by the overall level of inflation 
as well as relative inflation (i.e., inflation in the goods/services 
that the company either consumes of produces, relative to 
overall inflation).
¤Finally, exchange rate movement can have positive or negative 
effects on earnings and cash flows.
¨And hanging over all of this is the possibility of a macro 
shock, caused by acts of God or acts of man, that can 
alter everything.
Aswath Damodaran
18
19
Rule 1: Be macro consistent
Discount rate and Cash flow assumptions
¨The riskfree rate that you used to estimate your discount rate 
already incorporates assumptions about inflation and real 
growth. The cash flows that you use should reflect the same 
expectations. 
¨If you mismatch inflation or real growth assumptions, you will 
misvalue companies.
¤If you build in higher expectations of inflation and real growth into 
your cash flows than you have incorporated into your discount rate, 
you will over value companies.
¤If you build in lower expectations of inflation and real growth into your 
cash flows than you have incorporated into your discount rate, you will 
under value companies.
¨Bottom line: It is more important that you be consistent in 
your inflation/ growth assumptions than that you are right.
Aswath Damodaran
19
20
Inflation Consistency in Valuation
¨In a scenario where inflation is volatile and you are trying to estimate its 
level and effects on the value of a company, trying to get it right is an 
impossible task. You should however always maintain internal consistency 
in your valuation.
¨Put simply, if you expect inflation to be low (high), your discount rate and 
expected growth rate should both incorporate that low (high) inflation.
21
Rule 2: Keep your focus
Don’t let the macro drown the micro
¨When you are asked to value a company, you should 
keep your focus on what drives that value. If you 
bring in your specific macro views into the valuation, 
the value that you obtain for a company will be a 
joint result of what you think about the company 
and your macro views.
¨Bottom line: If you have macro views, provide them 
separately. You should be as macro-neutral as you 
can be, in your company valuations. 
¨Follow up: If you find macro risk dominating your 
thoughts, deal with it frontally.
Aswath Damodaran
21
Tools for Dealing with Uncertainty
‹#›
22
Aswath Damodaran
23
Ways of dealing with risk in analysis
¨Risk Adjusted Value
¤Estimate expected cash flows and adjust the discount rate for risk
¤Use certainty equivalent cash flows and use the riskfree rate as the 
discount rate
¨Probabilistic Approaches
¤Sensitivity Analysis: Ask what if questions about inputs into your valuation
¤Scenario Analysis: Evaluate values under different specified scenarios, with 
probabilities estimates for each scenario and an expected value across 
scenarios. 
¤Decision Trees: Estimate probabilities of risky events occurring, with 
outcomes on each event. Work backwards to get an expected value today.
¤Simulations: Replace point estimates of input variables with distributions, 
and estimate distribution of value, given multiple  draws from 
distributions.
24
I. Risk Adjusted Value
¨The value of a risky asset can be estimated by discounting the 
expected cash flows on the asset over its life at a risk-adjusted 
discount rate: 
where the asset has a n-year life, E(CFt) is the expected cash flow in period t 
and r is a discount rate that reflects the risk of the cash flows.
¨Alternatively, we can replace the expected cash flows with the 
guaranteed cash flows we would have accepted as an alternative 
(certainty equivalents) and discount these at the riskfreerate:
where CE(CFt) is the certainty equivalent of E(CFt) and rfis the riskfreerate.
25
II. Probabilistic Approaches
¨The essence of risk that you are unclear about what the 
outcomes will be from an investment. In the risk 
adjusted cash flow approach, we make the adjustment 
by either raising discount rates or lowering cash flows. 
¨In probabilistic approaches, we deal with uncertainty 
more explicitly by 
¤Asking what if questions about key inputs and looking at the 
impact on value (Sensitivity Analysis)
¤Looking at the cash flows/value under different scenarios for the 
future (Scenario Analysis)
¤Using probability distributions for key inputs, rather than 
expected values, and computing value as a distribution as well 
(Simulations)
26
a. Sensitivity Analysis and What-if 
Questions…
¨The NPV, IRR and accounting returns for an investment will change 
as we change the values that we use for different variables. 
¨One way of analyzing uncertainty is to check to see how sensitive 
the decision measure (NPV, IRR..) is to changes in key assumptions. 
While this has become easier and easier to do over time, there are 
caveats that we would offer.
¨Caveat 1: When analyzing the effects of changing a variable, we 
often hold all else constant. In the real world, variables move 
together.
¨Caveat 2: The objective in sensitivity analysis is that we make 
better decisions, not churn out more tables and numbers.
¤Corollary 1: Less is more. Not everything is worth varying…
¤Corollary 2: A picture is worth a thousand numbers (and tables).
27
What-if Analyses: Limits and Extensions
¨One equation, one unknown: Since the intrinsic value is 
one equation, themostyoucansolveforis one 
unknown. 
¤You can pick your ”key variable” (growth, discount rates, margin, 
CAP) and solve for that variable.
¤Implicitly, you are holding all else constant, which makes sense 
only if your input variables are uncorrelated with each other .
¨Consideringcorrelations:Intherealworld, inputs don’t 
move independently. 
¤Ifyour what-if is around business models, increasing one 
variable can come at the expense of another.
¤Ifyourwhat-if is around macro shocks/changes, the shock can 
affect variables in the same direction.
Aswath Damodaran
27
28
Valuing the S&P 500 on September 23, 
2022
Aswath Damodaran
28
29
b. Scenario Analysis
¨Scenario analysis is best employed when the outcomes of a project 
are a function of the macro economic environment and/or 
competitive responses.
¨As an example, assume that Boeing is considering the introduction 
of a new large capacity airplane, capable of carrying 650 
passengers, called the Super Jumbo, to replace the Boeing 747. The 
cash flows will depend upon two major “uncontrollable”factors:
¤The growth in the long-haul, international market, relative to the domestic 
market. Arguably, a strong Asian economy will play a significant role in 
fueling this growth, since a large proportion of it will have to come from an 
increase in flights from Europe and North America to Asia. 
¤The likelihood that Airbus, Boeing’s primary competitor, will come out 
with a larger version of its largest capacity airplane, the A-300, over the 
period of the analysis.
‹#›Aswath Damodaran30
31
Valuing easyJet: Brexit’s Consequences
No Deal Brexit Bad Deal Brexit Soft or No Brexit
Restructuring cost 
(up front)
£500 million £300 million $0
Revenue growth 3.00% 5.00% 5.00%
Operating Margin 6.00% 7.00% 8.00%
Sales to Capital 
Ratio
1.73 1.73 1.73
Aswath Damodaran
31
No Deal Brexit Delayed & Messy 
Brexit
Soft or No Brexit
Probability 25% 50% 25%
Value Per Share £12.02 £15.70 £19.38
Expected Value per share = .25 (£12.02) + .50 (£15.70) + .25 (£19.38) = £15.70
32
A Story-based Scenario Analysis
Aswath Damodaran
32
33
c. Decision Trees
34
With cash flows…
35
And on outcome…
36
d. Simulations
Aswath Damodaran
36
Do a base case valuation,with 
expected values for inputs
Identify the key value drivers
Value Sensiitivity 
"What ifs"
Investor fears & 
disagreements
Collect data on value driversHistorical data Cross Sectional 
Data
Choose probability 
distributions & parameters 
for value drivers
Build in constraints and 
connections
Run Simulations Value distributionValue Percentiles
Value Simulation: The Steps
37
Shell’s Revenues & Oil Prices
 $-
 $20.00
 $40.00
 $60.00
 $80.00
 $100.00
 $120.00
 0
 50,000.0
 100,000.0
 150,000.0
 200,000.0
 250,000.0
 300,000.0
 350,000.0
 400,000.0
 450,000.0
 500,000.0
198919901991199219931994199519961997199819992000200120022003200420052006200720082009201020112012201320142015
Average Oil Price during year
Revenues (in millions of $)
Shell: Revenues vs Oil Price
Revenue Oi l pr ice
Revenues =  39,992.77 + 4,039.39 * Average Oil Price    
R squared = 96.44%
Aswath Damodaran38
Aswath Damodaran39
40
Choosing a Probabilistic Approach
Why bother?
‹#›
41
Aswath Damodaran
42
Forecasting in the face of uncertainty. A 
test:
¨In which of these two cities would you find it easier 
to forecast the weather?
Aswath Damodaran
42
43
But the payoff is greatest where there is 
the most uncertainty…
Aswath Damodaran
43
