Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/YieldCurveInversion.pdf

THE INVERTED YIELD CURVE: IS
THERE A SIGNAL IN THE NOISE?
Yield curves, economic growth & stock prices
2
The Lead In
¨ Over the last few weeks, as markets have gyrated, 
explanations of day-to-day swings have shifted and 
morphed, often in contradictory ways, but few of them 
have had staying power . 
¨ On Tuesday (December 4), as the Dow dropped 800 
points, following a 300-point up day on Monday, the 
experts found a new reason for the market drop, in the 
yield curve, with an "inverted yield curve", or at least a 
portion of one, predicting an imminent recession. 
¨ As with all market rules of thumb, there is some basis for 
the rule, but there are shades of gray that can be seen 
only by looking at all of the data.
3
Yield Curves over time
4
Yield Curve on December 4, 2018
5
Yield Curve: A Rationale for Upward 
Sloping Curves
¨ To understand yield cur ves, let's start with a simple economic 
proposition. Embedded in every treasury rate are 
expectations of expected inflation and expected real real 
interest rates, and the latter
¤ Interest Rate = Expected Inflation Rate + Expected Real Interest Rate
¨ Over much of the last century, the US treasury yield curve has 
been upward sloping, and the standard economic 
rationalization for it is a simple one. In a market where 
expectations of inflation are similar for the short term and 
the long term, investors will demand a "maturity premium" 
(or a higher real interest rate) for buying longer term bonds, 
thus causing the upward tilt in the yield curve.
¨
6
And the mechanics of downward sloping 
curves
7
Inverted Yield Curves: A Fed Effect?
¨ The rises in short term rates that give rise to each of 
the inverted yield curve episodes are accompanied 
by increases in the Fed Funds rate. 
¨ To the extent that the Fed's monetary policy action 
(of raising the Fed funds rate) accomplishes its 
objective of slowing down growth, the yield slope 
metric becomes a stand-in for the Fed effect on the 
economy, with a more positive slope associated with 
easier monetary policy.
8
Inverted Yield Curves: The Perfect 
Predictor of Recessions?
9
Yield Curves and Economic Growth: A
fuller analysis?
¨ The fact that every inversion in the last few decades has 
been followed by a recession will strike fear into the 
hearts of investors, but is it that fool proof a predictor? 
¨ Perhaps, but given that the yield curve slope metrics and 
economic growth are continuous, not discrete, variables, 
a more complete assessment of the yield curve's 
predictive power for the economy would require that we 
look at the strength of the link between the slope of the 
yield curve (and not just whether it is inverted or not) 
and the level of economic growth (and not just whether 
it is positive or negative).
10
US treasury rates over time
11
Yield Spreads over time
12
Yield Spreads and GDP Growth
13
Looking past the picture..
14
What I see…
¨ It is the short end that has predictive power for the economy: Over 
the entire time period (1962-2018), the slope of the short end of 
the yield curve is positively related with economic growth, with 
more upward sloping yield curves connected to higher economic 
growth in subsequent time periods. 
¨ Even that predictive power is muted: Over the entire time period, 
even for the most strongly linked metric (which is the 2 year versus 
1 year), the correlation is only 29%, for GDP growth over the next 
year, suggesting that there is significant noise in the prediction.
¨ And 2008 may have been a structural break: Looking only at the 
last ten years, the relationship seems to have reversed sign, with 
flatter yield curves, even at the short end, associated with higher 
real growth. This may be a hangover from the slow economic 
growth in the years after the crisis, but it does raise red flags about 
using this indicator today.
15
Investor Perspectives
¨ As investors, your focus is often less on the 
economy, and more on stock prices.
¨ After all, strong economies don't always deliver 
superior stock returns, and weak ones can often be 
accompanied by strong market performance.
¨ From that perspective, the question becomes what 
the slope of the yield curve and inverted yield curves 
tell you about future stock returns, not economic 
growth.
16
Yield Curve Spreads and Stock Returns
17
And correlations
18
Reading the tea leaves: Two mistakes!
¨ Mistake 1: One is to take a blip on a day (the inversion in 
the 2 and 5 year bonds on December 4) and read too 
much into it, as we are apt to do when we are confused 
or scared. It is true that a portion of the yield curve 
inverted, but if history is any guide, its predictive power 
for the economy is weak and for the market, even 
weaker. 
¨ Mistake 2: The other is that we are taking rules of thumb 
developed in the US in the last century and assuming 
that they still work in a vastly different economic 
environment.
19
Bottom Line
¨ Yield curve flattening is good news: In my view, the flattening 
of the yield curve in the last two years has been more good 
news than bad, an indication that we are coming out of the 
low growth mindset of the post-2008 crisis years. 
¨ But the stalling at 3% is sobering news: I also think that the 
stalling of the US 10-year treasury bond rate at 3% or less is a 
warning that investors are scaling back growth expectations 
for both the global and US economies, going into 2019. 
¨ The key tests for stocks lie in whether they can not only 
sustain earnings growth, in the face of slower economic 
growth and without the tailwind of a tax cut (like they did last 
year), but also in whether they can continue to return cash at 
the rates that they have for the last few years.
