Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/InflationUpdate.pdf

SOW THE WIND, REAP THE 
WHIRLWIND: AN INFLATION 
UPDATE!
Inflation on center stage!
2
RepeatandRetrace
q In my early 2021 posts on inflation, I argued that while the higher inflation that we were just 
starting to see could be explained away as transitory, prudence required that policy makes 
treat it as a long termthreat and dealt with quickly. Not only did they not do so, but the 
fiscal and monetary actions they took in 2021 exacerbated inflationary pressures. 
q By the start of 2022, the window for early action had closed and for much of this year, 
inflation has been the elephant in the room, the force driving markets, forcing central banks 
to be reactive, and its presence has induced me to write three posts on its impact. 
q Inmy first on May 6, 2022, I put the surge in inflation, in 2022, in historical context and argued that it 
is unexpected inflation that shakes up the economy and caused damage to financial assets, and that 
until we reached a steady state, where expectations and actual inflation converge, markets would 
continue to be unsettled. 
q In afollow-up post on May 20, I looked at the disparate effects of inflation on individual companies, 
positing that safer companies with pricing power are more protected against inflation than riskier 
companies in competitive businesses. 
q Ina third post on July 1, 2022, I pointed to inflation as a key culprit in the retreat of risk capital, i.e., 
capital invested in the riskiest segments of every market, and presented evidence of the impact on 
risk premiums (bond default spreads and equity risk premiums) in markets. In terms of content, I am 
afraid this post will contain nothing new, but the fresh uncertainties about inflation, and its impact, 
that have opened upthis summer require at least an updating of the numbers.
3
Inflation: Actual
4
Inflation: Expectations from Surveys
5
Reflected in probabilities…
6
A Market-implied Expected Inflation
7
First Order Effects: Interest Rates
8
Interest Rates in 2022
9
With Yield Curves
10
And Exchange Rates
11
Second Order Effects: Risk Capital
12
Ebbs and Flows: VC
13
Ebbs and Flows: IPOs
14
Ebbs and Flows: High Yield Debt issuances
15
Risk Premiums: Default Spreads
16
Equity Risk Premiums
17
A Double Whammy?
¨There are two things that stand out about equity markets in 2022. 
¤The first is the surge in the equity risk premium from from 4.24% on 
January 1, 2022, to 6.05%, on September 23, 2022, an increase on par with 
what we have seen during market crises (2001, 2008 and 2020) in the past. 
¤The second is that as equity risk premiums have jumped, the treasury 
bond rate has more than doubled, from 1.51% on January 1, 2022, to 
3.69% on September 23, 2022. 
¨In contrast to the afore-mentioned crises, where the treasury bond 
rate dropped, offsetting some of the impact of the rise in equity 
risk premiums, this inflation-induced market reaction has caused 
the expected return on stocks to rise from 5.75% on January 1, 
2022, to 9.75%, on September 23, 2022; that increase of 4% dwarfs 
the increases in expected returns that we witnessed in the last 
quarter of 2008 or the first quarter of 2020.
18
Third Order Effects: The Economy and 
Psyches!
¨As you have probably noticed, perceptions of where the economy is 
headed have worsened, as we have gone through 2022, even in the face 
of relatively good news on unemployment. 
¨Much of the blame for the darkening forecasts has been directed toward 
Jerome Powell and the Federal Reserve, and while there is much that you 
can critique about how the Fed has played its cards during this crisis, it is 
inflation that is in the driver’s seat, not the Fed. Interest rates have risen 
this year because of inflation expectations rising, and it is these higher 
rates (and expected inflation) that are leading the Fed to act. 
¨In short, the Fed has two choices, neither of which is appealing. 
¤It can do nothing, which is the path that some of its critics would rather have it 
take, and interest rates will continue to rise, perhaps at an even faster rate, as 
inflation expectations surge. 
¤Alternatively, it can try to reclaim the narrative, by acting to slow the economy 
down, perhaps even putting it into a recession, with length and severity still to be 
determined.
19
Determinants of Value
20
1. Earnings
21
2. Cash Return
22
My S&P 500 Story
23
What if?
24
What now?
¨ TheBull:Ifyouarebullish,theassumptionthatmakesthebiggestdifferenceis
whereyouseeequityriskpremiumsconverging,withpremiumscloserto4%
yieldingundervaluationontheindex,evenwithsignificantearningsshocksbuilt
in.
¨ TheBear:Attheotherendofthespectrum,iftheequityriskpremiumstaysat6%
orhigher ,theonlyscenariowhereyouarriveatavalueclosetotheindexisifthe
10-yearT.Bondratedropsto2%andearningsestimatescomeinasexpected,with
significantcorrectionstocome,inscenarioswhereratesstayhigherand/or
earningscomeinbelowestimates.
¨ ThePolicyChoices:Givenachoicebetweenallowinginflationtoplayitselfout
andinitiatingpolicesthatcreatearecession,therearesomewhoarepushingfor
theformer,arguingthattradingoffthecertainpainthatcomeswitharecession
fortheuncertainbenefitsoflowerinflationisnotgoodpolicy.Isympathize,but
thedangersoflettinginflationplayoutisthatifitdoessoinunpleasantways,
whereitstayshighandvolatile,itseffectsaregoingtobefarmorelongtermand
moredamaging.Highandvolatileinflationcorrodeseconomiesandmarketsfrom
theinsideout,destroyingfaithincurrenciesandmakinginvestorsandbusinesses
behaveindysfunctionalways.
