Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/macrodelusion.pdf

THE MACRO DELUSION: HOW OVER 
CONFIDENCE CREATES OVER PRICING 
(BUBBLES) AND WHY IT IS A FEATURE 
OF MARKETS (NOT A BUG)!
Aswath Damodaran
www.damodaran.com 
Blog post: Big Markets, Over Conﬁdence and the Macro Delusion
Post date:  August 28, 2015
Link: http://bit.ly/1JBGHVx
2
A	  billion	  plus	  people,	  high	  growth,	  surging	  
middle	  class	  =	  Marke9ng	  Wet	  Dream	  
The	  dream	  behind	  social	  media	  company	  
valua9ons.	  It	  is	  a	  big	  market,	  really	  big,	  
really,	  really	  big.	  
If	  you	  have	  been	  watch	  taxi	  cabs	  be	  
decimated	  by	  Uber,	  get	  ready	  for	  your	  
business	  to	  be	  “Uberized”.	  
Your	  data,	  your	  calendar,	  your	  contacts,	  
your	  music,	  your	  life	  is	  in	  the	  cloud,	  and	  
someone	  is	  going	  to	  make	  money	  oﬀ	  
that.	  
Big Market Dreams
3
The	  easy	  (and	  lazy)	  answer:	  It’s	  a	  bubble!!	  
¨  The	  minute	  you	  classify	  a	  market	  as	  being	  in	  a	  
bubble,	  you	  have	  already	  passed	  judgment	  on	  
investors	  in	  the	  market.	  At	  least	  in	  your	  view,	  they	  
are	  irra9onal,	  greedy	  and	  perhaps	  even	  stupid.	  
¨  By	  doing	  so,	  you	  eliminate	  any	  chance	  you	  have	  of	  
understanding	  why	  investors	  in	  that	  market	  are	  
pricing	  assets	  the	  way	  they	  are	  and	  perhaps	  learning	  
from	  that	  understanding.
4
A	  big	  market	  story:	  An	  entrepreneur	  sees	  a	  big	  
market,	  and	  acts..
5
Others	  see	  the	  same	  market	  too..
6
In	  a	  world	  of	  supreme	  ra9onality,	  the	  
probabili9es	  and	  values	  should	  adjust	  
¨  If	  each	  of	  these	  entrepreneurs	  were	  ra9onal	  and	  
unbiased,	  they	  should	  each	  assess	  a	  fair	  probability	  
of	  success,	  given	  the	  big	  market	  and	  the	  existence	  of	  
compe99on.	  
¨  In	  eﬀect,	  this	  reassessment	  should	  lead	  to	  lower	  
expected	  cash	  ﬂows	  and	  values	  for	  all	  the	  entrants,	  
and	  perhaps	  lead	  some	  of	  them	  to	  drop	  out	  (and	  
cause	  new	  entrants	  to	  hold	  back)>
7
Add	  the	  secret	  sauce:	  Over	  conﬁdence	  
¨  Empirical	  research	  suggests	  that	  individuals	  who	  
become	  entrepreneurs	  and	  venture	  capitalists	  share	  
a	  common	  characteris9c.	  They	  tend	  to	  be	  over	  
conﬁdent.	  
¨  With	  that	  over	  conﬁdence,	  each	  entrepreneur	  over	  
es9mates	  his	  or	  her	  likelihood	  of	  success	  in	  the	  big	  
market	  and	  aUracts	  venture	  capitalists	  who	  buy	  into	  
that	  point	  of	  view.
8
With	  the	  following	  consequences	  
1.  The	  companies	  in	  the	  big	  market	  will	  be	  collec9vely	  
over	  priced.	  
2.  As	  the	  sector	  matures	  and	  the	  results	  start	  coming	  
in,	  you	  should	  expect	  to	  see:	  
a.  Revenue	  growth	  will	  come	  in	  lower	  than	  expected,	  at	  
least	  in	  the	  aggregate.	  
b.  Opera9ng	  margins	  will	  come	  under	  pressure	  as	  
compe99on	  heats	  up	  and	  ﬁrms	  cut	  prices	  to	  gain	  market	  
share.	  
c.  Growth	  will	  become	  more	  expensive	  (more	  
reinvestment)
9
Some	  general	  proposi9ons	  about	  the	  
magnitude	  of	  over	  pricing..	  
1.  As	  the	  size	  of	  the	  poten9al	  market	  increases,	  the	  
extent	  of	  the	  over	  pricing	  should	  also	  increase.	  
2.  The	  earlier	  a	  market	  is	  in	  the	  life	  cycle,	  the	  greater	  
will	  be	  the	  over	  pricing.	  
3.  The	  more	  a	  market	  is	  governed	  by	  global	  
networking	  beneﬁts	  (winner-­‐take-­‐all),	  the	  greater	  
will	  be	  the	  over	  pricing.
10
An	  example:	  Social	  Media	  Companies	  and	  the	  
Online	  Adver9sing	  Market	  
¨  With	  Facebook	  leading	  the	  way,	  social	  media	  
companies	  have	  seen	  their	  market	  proﬁle	  increase	  
(and	  with	  it	  their	  market	  capitaliza9ons).	  
¨  With	  almost	  every	  one	  of	  these	  companies,	  the	  big	  
market	  that	  has	  been	  oﬀered	  as	  the	  prize	  is	  the	  
growing	  online	  adver9sing	  market,	  a	  market	  that	  
Google	  has	  ridden	  successfully	  for	  the	  last	  decade.
11
Imputed	  Revenues:	  The	  Facebook	  Example
13
Measuring	  up	  against	  the	  online	  adver9sing	  
market	  
In 2014,
Total Global Ad Spending = $543 billion
Online (Digital) Ad Spending = $138 billion
14
What	  does	  it	  mean?	  
¨  Collec9vely,	  companies	  that	  derive	  most	  or	  all	  of	  
their	  revenues	  from	  online	  adver9sing	  (and	  expect	  
to	  con9nue	  to	  do	  so)	  are	  over	  valued.	  
¨  Individually,	  there	  are	  one,	  two	  or	  perhaps	  even	  
three	  companies	  in	  this	  space	  that	  are	  under	  valued,	  
because	  they	  will	  end	  up	  as	  winners	  in	  a	  big	  market.	  
¨  However,	  the	  winner	  may	  not	  be	  a	  public	  company	  
yet	  (Snap	  Chat?)	  or	  perhaps	  not	  even	  be	  started	  yet.
15
Lessons	  to	  learn?	  
¨  If	  you	  are	  a	  trader,	  you	  are	  becng	  on	  prices	  (not	  value),	  
you	  should	  not	  care,	  other	  than	  gecng	  your	  9ming	  right.	  
Buy	  while	  the	  bubble	  is	  forming	  and	  sell	  before	  it	  bursts.	  
¨  If	  you	  are	  an	  entrepreneur,	  you	  cannot	  ﬁght	  the	  over	  
conﬁdence	  that	  made	  you	  one,	  but	  you	  should	  try	  to	  
incorporate	  intrinsic	  valua9on	  (DCF)	  into	  your	  tool	  kit.	  It	  
will	  force	  you	  to	  put	  numbers	  on	  your	  expecta9ons	  and	  
provide	  a	  template	  for	  delivering	  them.	  
¨  If	  you	  are	  a	  venture	  capitalist,	  your	  success	  comes	  from	  
your	  capacity	  to	  pick	  the	  right	  horse	  in	  the	  race.	  
¨  If	  you	  are	  a	  public	  investor,	  never	  say	  never	  about	  
inves:ng	  in	  a	  company.
16
Final	  Thoughts	  
¨  Bubbles	  are	  a	  feature	  of	  markets,	  not	  a	  bug:	  It	  is	  the	  
nature	  of	  markets	  for	  bubbles	  to	  form	  and	  burst.	  	  
¨  Bubbles	  are	  healthy:	  While	  some	  bubbles	  create	  
signiﬁcant	  side-­‐costs	  for	  society,	  bubbles	  for	  the	  
most	  part	  are	  a	  sign	  of	  health	  in	  markets.	  A	  market	  
without	  bubbles	  is	  one	  without	  innova9on,	  
experimenta9on	  and	  audacity.
