Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/GEin2018.pdf

THE GE END GAME: BATAAN 
DEATH MARCH OR TURNAROUND 
PLAY?
The Core VC Competitive Advantage?
2
The Lead In
¨ it was just 2001, when GE was the most valuable company in 
the world, commanding a market capitalization in excess of 
$500 billion. 
¨ The quintessential conglomerate, with a presence in almost 
every aspect of the global economy, it seemed to have been 
built to withstand economic shocks and was the choice for 
conservative investors, scared of the short life cycles and the 
volatile fortunes of its tech challengers. 
¨ In the last two years, GE’s fall from grace (and market cap 
peaks) has been precipitous.
¨ As a new CEO is brought in, with hopes that he will be a 
savior, it is the right time to both look back and look forward 
at one of the globe's most iconic companies.
3
GE’s History
¨ GE's roots can be traced back to Thomas Edison and his 
invention of the light bulb. The company that Edison founded 
in 1878, Edison General Electric, was combined with two 
other electric companies to create General Electric in 1892. 
¨ The company established its first industrial lab in 1900 and it 
would not be an exaggeration to say that it revolutionized not 
just the American home, with its appliances, but changed the 
way Americans live. GE remained an appliance company, 
though it made forays into other businesses. 
¨ It was in 1980, when Jack Welch became the CEO of the 
company, that the company started its march towards what it 
has become today.
4
Market Capitalization March
5
Operating History
6
A changing business mix
7
GE, coming into 2018
Power
29%
Renewable Energy
8%
Oil & Gas
14%
Aviation
22%
Healthcare
15%
Transportation
3%
Lighting
2%
Capital
7%
GE Revenue Breakdown- 2017
8
GE’s Businesses
9
Paths Forward: A Life Cycle Perspective
10
1. Break it up: Ingredients for success
¨ Separable businesses: The different businesses have to 
be separable, since leakages and synergies across 
businesses can make it more difficult to cleave off pieces 
to sell or spin off. 
¨ Willing buyers: There have to be potential buyers who 
are willing to pay prices for the pieces that exceed what 
they will generate as value for the holding company, as 
going concerns, and those higher prices either have to 
come from potential synergies or changed management. 
¨ Corporate Waste (at HQ): A large chunk of the corporate 
overhead has to viewed as wasteful, with a big drop in 
corporate expenses accompanying the breakup.
11
Pricing GE, in pieces
12
2. Retrench and Reshape
13
3. Reincarnate
¨ The company tries to recapture its old glory, throwing caution 
to the winds and reinvesting large amounts in new 
businesses, or worse still, large acquisitions. 
¨ While there is no indication that Larry Culp, GE's new CEO, 
has grandiose plans for the company, that may be because 
the company is in crisis today. If as the crisis passes, 
¨ Culp is tempted to make himself the second coming of Jack 
Welch, the company will follow the path of other aging 
companies that refuse to act their age, spending billions on 
cosmetic surgery (acquisitions) before finally capitulating. 
¨ If there is a role model that Mr . Culp should follow, it is less 
that of Steve the Visionary,and more that of Larry the 
Liquidator.
14
Lessons for business
¨ Conglomeration was, is and always will be a bad idea : Only a corporate strategist could 
argue that combining companies in different businesses under one corporate umbrella, 
paying hefty premiums along the way to acquire these holdings, creates value, ignoring 
the logic that you and I as stockholders can create our own diversified and customized 
portfolios, without paying the same premium. 
¨ Complexity has a cost: While that complexity served GE well in its glory days, allowing 
it to hide mistakes from sloppy acquisition practices and bets gone bad, it has 
bedeviled the company since 2008. 
¨ Easy money has a catch : When a business looks like it can make you easy money, there 
is always a catch. Financial service firms through history have always had periods of 
plenty interspersed with bouts of gut -wrenching and intense pain, when borrowers 
start defaulting and capital markets freeze up. 
¨ The Savior CEO is a myth : Jack Welch was an inspirational top manager, a man with 
vision and drive, but he was also an imperial CEO, who made his board of directors a 
rubber stamp for his actions . He did good things for the company, but his ego 
unchecked, he also made some bad choices. It is worth remembering that power left 
unchecked in any person (no matter how smart and visionary) is dangerous .
15
The Bottom Line: Good (Bad) companies ≠ 
Good (Bad) Investments
¨ With some companies, like Amazon and Google, the story is 
uplifting and optimistic, and the valuations follow, but they still 
might not be good investments, since their prices may be even 
higher . 
¨ My story for GE is not an upbeat one, but if it (and its 
management) acts its age, accepts that slower or no growth is what 
lies in the future and does not over reach, it is a good investment. 
¨ I believe that the market has over corrected for GE's many faults, 
and at the current stock price, that it is significantly under valued. 
¨ I will buy GE, but I will do so with open eyes, not expecting (or 
wanting) dividends to be paid until the debt gets paid down and 
the company exits the capital business with as much grace (and as 
few costs) as it can muster.
