Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Tesla2018.pdf

THE TESLA STORY: A BORING, 
BONEHEADED UPDATE!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Tesla: The Set U p
Aswat h 
Damodaran
¨ Not a boring stock : There are lots of complaints that 
you can have about Tesla, but being boring is not 
one of them. It helps to have a CEO who seems to 
find new ways to make himself newsworthy, in good 
and bad ways. 
¨ Evoking divergent opinions : It should comes as no 
surprise that there is no other stock where investors 
disagree more about the future than T esla, with bulls 
finding new reasons for pushing it price up and short 
sellers picking the stock as their favorite, albeit 
elusive, target .
3
Tesla: M y Past
Aswat h 
Damodaran
¨ Not a Tesla bear: I have never found it to be an 
attractive investment but I have always admired the 
company and, by extension, Elon Musk.
¨ Not a T esla bull: That said, I have never bought the 
stock, because my valuations have always lagged the 
market price.
¨ Bottom line: I think that Tesla’s p rom ise as a 
business has always run ahead of its capacity to 
deliver on that promise.
4
The Story Story (from 2016)
Aswath Damodaran
4
1. It the ultimate story stock , which is how I described 
it in a post in 2016 , explaining both its price 
volatility and its capacity to weather bad news .
2. Built around a personality : Investors in Tesla were 
more investors in Elon Musk, than in the company, 
with the company reflecting his strengths, a surplus 
of vision and out -of-the-box thinking, and his 
weaknesses, an unwillingness to pay attention to 
operating details and financial first principles in 
running the company.
5
Violating Financial First Principles?
Aswath Damodaran
5
¨ 1. The acquisition of Solar City : In acquiring Solar City, a 
company where Musk was a lead stockholder and his cousin 
was CEO, Tesla had to not only overcome the perception of a 
conflicted deal, but acquired a company with negative cash 
flows in a rapidly commoditizing business, not a great fit for a 
company that had its own cash flow problems.
¨ 2. The turn to debt : Tesla's decided to borrow more than $5 
billion in September 2017 to fund its capital needs, an act 
that was almost incomprehensible, given Tesla's standing at 
the time. As I noted in a post at that time , there was no good 
reason that could be offered for that borrowing, since none 
of the usual arguments for debt applied.
6
Tesla: Financial U pdate
7
Tesla: The Earnings C all
¨ Elon Musk, a few minutes into the most recent earnings 
call, blew up at at Toni Sacconaghi, a Sanford Bernstein 
analyst, calling his question about future capital needs 
"boring and boneheaded". 
¨ He then proceeded to stop taking questions from 
analysts entirely and answered only questions posed on 
YouTube by investors gathered by a recent start-up. 
¨ While the market reaction to the bizarre earnings call 
was negative, with the stock dropping 5.5%, the stock, as 
it has so many times before, recovered in the weeks 
after and climbed to close to all-time highs.
8
Tesla: O ther N ews fro m  E lo n
1. He announced that given Tesla's financial constraints, 
the company would focus. at least for the next few 
months, on turning out the higher priced version of the 
Tesl a 3,  pri ced at $75, 000 rather than the $35, 000 base 
price that he had announced as part of the original 
rollout. His reasons for doing so, i.e., that shipping the 
lower cost model would cause T esla to "lose money 
and die" suggest that the lower priced version may not 
be viable. 
2. He also announced that Tesla would lay off 9% of its 
employees, mostly from the Solar City portion of the 
company, explaining that the company needed to move 
towards sustained profitability
9
Tesla’s fo cus (fo r the m o m ent)
¨ Need to become "profitable and will be "cash flow 
positive" by the third quarter. In fact, Musk has been 
categorical that Tesla will not need to raise capital to 
cover its investment needs in the future, in response to 
stories in the press that Tesla would need to raise 
between billions to cover its growth plans. 
¨ Manufacturing 5000 cars from its assembly lines each 
week, a meager number for most auto makers but 
driving decision making at Tesla. It is in pursuit of this 
goal that Tesla has augmented its Fremont plant 
with additional tented assembly lines, Musk has 
been "sleeping on the factory floor"and at least partly 
pulled back on its plan toreplace workers with robots.
10
Value Driver 1: Revenues
11
Value Driver 2: Operating Margin
12
Value Driver 3: Reinvestment
13
Value Driver 4: Risk
14
Possible, Plausible and Probable Tesla 
Stories
15
A Plausible Path to $400/share? The Royal 
Flush
¨ Increase revenues ten -fold over the next decade : Tesla's current revenues of $12.5 billion 
will have to increase to $120 billion or more in the next ten years, giving it revenues close to 
those of BMW today. Assuming an average car price of $60,000, that would translate into 2 
million cars sold in year 10, illustrating why the focus on whether Tesla can hit its target of 
5,000 cars a week is missing the big picture.
¨ Improve operating margins to match the most profitable auto companies : Its pre-tax 
operating margin will climb to 12%, well above the median auto margin of 4.81% or BMW's 
9.89%, powered by brand name and pricing power .
¨ Invest more efficiently than the sector : Reinvest more efficiently , delivering about $2.25 in 
revenues for every dollar of capital invested, much higher than than the typical auto firm. To 
provide perspective, Tesla in year 10 will have to deliver BMW -like revenues with about a 
third of BMW's invested capital
¨ Navigate its way through debt to safety : Finally, as it moves towards becoming a much larger, 
more profitable firm, Tesla will also have to meet its commitments on current debt and not 
add to the mix, at least for the near term. In terms of operating risk, Tesla will have to face a 
cost of capital of 8.29%, in line with the typical auto firm .
17
Musk’s T esla Story: A Fairy Tale?
¨ If you believe Elon Musk, Tesla will be able to become a 
large automobile company with above-average margins, 
without having to access capital markets and turning the 
corner quickly when it comes to profitability.
¨ There is no chance that T esla can deliverwhat it needs 
to, in terms of scaling up revenues and improving 
profitability, tojustify itsmarketcapitalization, without 
raising new equity along the way.
¨ This is a fairy tale and if you are a Tesla investor, you 
have to hope that this is a bluff and that Tesla will be 
willing to raise new equity to keep its growth alive.
18
My T esla Story
¨ Revenues of $100 billion: Tesla will be able to grow 
revenues substantially over the next decade.
¨ With very good margins: Improve margins to rank among 
the more profitable auto companies.
¨ Reinvest efficiently:  I also think that Elon Musk will back 
track on his promise of not having to raise fresh capital 
and that Tesla will invest billions into new plant and 
equipment, more efficiently than other auto companies. 
¨ Keeping risk in check: On the risk front, I am comfortable 
with assuming that operating risk will stabilize over time, 
but I also think that the debt burden will pose a danger 
to survival, at least for the next year or two.
20
The Bottom Line
¨ There is no denying the fact that Elon Musk has been central 
to the Tesla story so far and that his vision and charisma have 
been largely responsible for pushing the stock price to its 
current levels. 
¨ That said, we are at a point in Tesla's history where I think 
that the question can be raised as to whether the negatives 
that Musk brings to the job are starting to catch up with and 
perhaps overwhelm the positives. 
¨ This  is a company in clear need of checks and balances, 
either from a strong management team or a powerful board 
of directors. Unfortunately, neither exists at the company 
now, and if are bullish on Tesla, that should scare you .
