Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/CountryRisk2023.pdf

Country Risk: A 2023 Update
Frying pans and Fires…
Aswath Damodaran
An Annual Ritual on Country Risk
•For the last decade, I have looked at country risk, in all its 
dimensions, towards the middle of each year for many reasons. 
•One is curiosity, as political and economic crises roll through regions of the 
world, roiling long-held beliefs about safe and risky countries. 
•The other is pragmatic, since it is almost impossible to value a company or 
business today without a clear sense of how risk exposure varies across the 
world, since for many companies, either the inputs or output are often in 
foreign markets. 
•Since country risk is multidimensional and dynamic, my annual 
country risk update runs to more than a hundred pages, but I will try 
to summarize what the last year has brought in this post.
Drivers of Country Risk
1. Democracy, in degrees…
2. Violence and its Consequences
3. Corruption, an implicit tax
4. Legal Protection or its Absence!
MeasuringCountryRisk
•Default Risk: Countries can default on their borrowings, and default 
risk looks at that likelihood.
•SovereignRatings: Moody’s, S&P and Fitch (among others) rate countries on 
both local and foreign currency debt.
•Sovereign CDS spreads: This is a market-based estimate of how much it will 
cost you to buy insuranceagainstsovereigndefault on an annual basis.
•Composite Risk Scores: There are services like PRS, the Economist 
and the World Bank that measure country risk on many dimensions 
and with a score.
•Pluses: Bring in risks that may not be captured in default
•Minuses:Nostandardization, Subjective, Difficult to compare across 
countries
•Equity/Ownership Risk: Should be greater than default risk, since 
equity investors are last in line, behind lenders.
AswathDamodaran
1A. Sovereign Ratings
Aswath Damodaran
A History of Sovereign Default
Aswath Damodaran
1B. Sovereign CDS Spreads
2. Country Risk Scores
Aswath Damodaran
3. Equity Risk Premiums: My Approach
Blue: Moody’ s Rating
Red: Added Country Risk
Green #: Total ERP
ERP : July 2023
Regional numbers are GDP-weighted averages
CaveatsandQuestions
•Iamnotacountryriskresearcher,andItrynottoletmypersonalviewsalterthe
numbersthatemergefromtheanalysis,sincethatwouldopenthedoortomy
biases.Iwillusethreecountriesinthelatestupdatetoillustratemypoint:
1.Saudi Arabia: As I noted earlier, using default spreads as my starting point can result in understating 
the risk premium for countries like Saudi Arabia, which score low on default risk but high on other 
risks.
2.Libya: As indicated in the last section, the equity risk premium for Libya, an unrated country, is 
entirely based upon the country risk score from PRS. That country risk score is surprisingly high 
(indicating low risk)and it results in an equity risk premium that is low, relative to other countries 
in the region.
3.China: In the aftermath of a Beijing crackdown on Chinese tech giants and talk of a trade war 
between China and the US, the perception seems to be that China has become a riskier place to 
invest. That may or may not be true, but looking at how Chinese equities are priced, trading still at 
some of the highest multiples of earnings in the world, investors in equity markets don't seem to 
share that view (yet).
•With all three of these countries, I have chosen not to change the numbers that 
resulted from my analysis, lest I be accused of bias, but if you have strong views 
on these countries or others, nothing is stopping you from replacing my numbers 
with yours.
Company Hurdle Rates: The Currency 
Question
•CurrencyChoice:Eachcurrencybringsitsownexpectationsofinflation,withhigher
inflationcurrenciesleadingtohighergrowthratesforcashflowsandhigherdiscountrates.
•CurrencyRisk:Whileanalystsareoftentemptedtotrytoadjustdiscountratesforcurrency
risk,cautioniscalledfor:
•Totheextentthatcurrencyriskaddstotheoperatingriskofacompany,itis,inmyview,already
embeddedintheequityriskpremiumsthatIhavecomputedinthelastsection.
•Theotherreasontotreadlightlywithcurrencyriskisthatforinvestorswithglobalportfolios,it
becomesdiversifiablerisk,assomecompaniesbenefitasacurrencystrengthensorweakenedmorethanexpectedandothercompaniesloseforthesamereason.
Company Exposure to Country Risk
Aswath Damodaran
Conclusion
•Work in progress:I do hope that you get a chance to read the paper 
or at least review my country risk measures in this post, since there is 
significant room for improvement. 
•I don't have all the answers, and I probably never will, but progress is 
incremental.
•Each year, I hope that I can add a tweak or a component that will move me in 
the right direction.
•It is not personal: Please don’ttakeanyofthesenumberspersonally.
If you feelthatIhave overestimated therisk in your country and 
given it an equity risk premium that you believe is undeservedly high, 
it is not because I do not like you or have bad feelings about your 
country. It is entirely Moody’s fault for giving your country too low a 
rating, and you should take it up with them.
