Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ImpactInvesting.pdf

GOOD INTENTIONS, PERVERSE 
OUTCOMES: THE IMPACT OF 
IMPACT INVESTING
Where’s the beef?
2
Impact Investing: A force for change?
¨I have made no secret of my disdain for ESG, anover-
hyped and over-sold acronym,that has been agravy 
train for a whole host of players, including fund 
managers, consultants and academics. 
¨In response, I have been told that the problem is not 
with the idea of ESG, but in its measurement and 
application, and that impact investing is the solution to 
both market and society's problems. 
¨Impact investing, of course, is investing in businesses and 
assets based on the expectation of not just earning 
financial returns, but also creating positive change in 
society.
3
Setting the Table
¨It is human nature to want to make the world a better 
place, but does impact investing have the impact that it 
aims to create? 
¨I will work with two presumptions. 
¤The first is that the problems for society that impact investing 
are aiming to address are real, whether it be climate change, 
poverty or wealth inequality. 
¤The second is that impact investors have good intentions, aiming 
to make a positive difference in the world. 
¨I want to keep my focus on the mechanics and 
consequences of impact investing, rather than indulge in 
debates about society's problems or question investor 
motives.
4
Impact Investing: The how much and who?
In 2022, impact investors invested $1.16 trillion in the 
market
5
The why…
6
The how…
1.InclusionaryImpactInvesting:Ontheinclusionarypath,impact
investorsseekoutbusinessesorcompaniesthataremostlikelyto
haveapositiveimpactonwhateversocietalproblemtheyare
seekingtosolve,andinvestinthesecompanies,oftenwillingto
payhigherpricesthanjustifiedbythefinancialpayoffsonthe
business.
2.ExclusionaryImpactInvesting:Intheexclusionarysegue,impact
investorssellsharesinbusinessesthattheyown,orrefusetobuy
sharesinthesebusinesses,iftheyareviewedasworseningthe
targetedsocietalproblem.
3.EvangelistImpactInvesting:Intheactivistvariant,impactinvestors
buystakesinbusinessesthattheyviewascontributingtothe
societalproblem,andthenusethatownershipstaketopushfor
changesinoperationsandbehavior,toreducethenegativesocial
orenvironmentalimpact.
7
How impact investing works (on paper)…
¨With inclusionary & exclusionary impact investing..
¨With activist impact investing…
8
Perverse Outcomes?
9
Climate Change Impact Investing
¨While impact investing can be directed at any of society's ills, it is 
undeniable that its biggest focus has been on climate change, with 
hundreds of billions of dollars directed at reversing its effects. 
¨In many ways, climate change seems tailor made for impact 
investing to have an impact, since:
¤It is an existential problem, where there seems to be consensus on the 
problem, albeit not on solutions.
¤Many of the businesses that create the problem are publicly traded and 
thus easily targeted.
¨As an empirical question, it is worth examining how impact 
investing has affected the market perceptions and pricing of green 
energy and fossil fuel companies, the operating decisions at these 
companies, and most critically, on the how we produce and 
consume energy.
10
1a. Fund Flows into green energy
11
1b. And divestments of fossil fuel firms..
12
2a. Market Cap –Green Firms…
13
2b. Fossil Fuels –Market Cap
14
3a. Pricing Metrics –Green Energy
15
3b. Fossil Fuels –The Oil price effect
16
Fossil Fuels: Separating the Impact 
investing effect from oil prices..
17
Fossil Fuels: Pricing Metrics
18
4a. Fossil Fuels -Operating profitability
19
4b. Fossil Fuel –Cash Returns
20
4c. Fossil Fuels Exploration
21
4d. Private Equity fills the void…
22
4e. Activist impact investing loses its 
mojo…
¨While fossil fuel companies were quick to give in to pressure from 
impact investors for much of the last decade, the Russian invasion 
of Ukraine seems to have beenan "emperor-has-no-clothes" 
moment for green energy advocates, laying bare how reliant the 
globe still is on fossil fuels for its energy needs. 
¨In the aftermath, the biggest fossil fuel companies have become 
bolder about their plans to stay in and grow their fossil 
fuelinvestments, withRoyal Dutch taking a stake in Qatari gas 
field,BP announcing it will produce more oil and gas,Exxon Mobil 
buying Pioneer Natural Resources, a shale driller for $60 billion, 
andPetrobras reversing course on divestitures.
¨Institutional backing for activist campaigns is lagging, as the big 
players (Blackrock, Vanguard etc.) step back from supporting 
climate change votes at annual meetings.
23
5a. Oil Consumption
24
5b. Global Energy Dependence: 1971 vs 
2019
25
5c. US Energy Sources
26
The macro impact –summing up
¨After 15 years of investing, and more than $5.4 trillion 
invested, impact investing has hardly moved the needle 
on how we produce and consume energy.
¤To the impact investors’ argument that it takes time, I though 
time was the one thing we did not have on our side in the 
climate change fight.
¤If this is what passes for winning in impact investing, I would 
hate to see what losing looks like.
¨I must confess that whatI see in the data is the essence 
of insanity, where impact investors keep throwing in 
more cash into green energy and more vitriol at fossil 
fuels, while the global dependence on fossil fuels 
increases.
27
Impact Investing: Can it be rescued?
1. Withyourownmoney,passthesleeptest:Yourinvestingshouldreflectyour
pocketbookandyourconscience.Itishowyoupassthesleeptest!
2. Withotherpeople'smoney,betransparentandaccountableaboutimpact:Ifyou
areinvestingotherpeople’smoney,andaimingforimpact,youneedgetbuyin
fromthosewhoareinvestingwithyou.Inaddition,youneedtospecify
measurementmetricsthatyouwillusetoevaluatewhetheryouarehavingthe
impactthatyoupromised.
3. Behonestabouttradeoffs:Wheninvestingyourownorotherpeople'smoney,it
isimportantyoubehonestwithyourselfnotonlyabouttheimpactthatyouare
having,butthatyouconsidertradeoffsimplicitinimpactinvesting.
4. Lessabsolutism,morepragmatism:Forthoseimpactinvestorswhocloak
themselvesinvirtue,andactasiftheycommandthemoralhighground,just
stop!Behumble,bewillingtoexperimentandbewillingtochangecourse.
5. Harnesstheprofitmotive:Whileitistruethatthepursuitofprofitsmayunderlie
theproblemthatyouaretryingtosolve,thepowerfromharnessingtheprofit
motivecanbringtosolvingproblems,isimmense.
