Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate5.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET UPDATE V: BACK 
TO BASICS
Glimmers of light?
2
Another week, more volatility…
¨ Déjà vu? My first post on this blog was on September 17, 2008, a 
week into the 2008 crisis, and I expected that after a few posts, 
that crisis would be behind us, and that we could go back to our 
lives. That of course turned out not to be the case, as the crisis not 
only extended for months, but left its imprint for the next decade
¨ An up week: Unlike my four previous updates, this one will describe 
a week of market recovery, at least in sum, but like the previous 
weeks, the increase in market values came with wide swings and 
continued uncertainty and volatility. 
¨ Bailouts & Buybacks : Governments around the world rushed to 
pass rescue packages designed to get both individuals and 
businesses through a period where the global economic machine 
has been shut down. These bailouts, in addition to being many 
times larger than prior bailouts, have also reignited debates about 
what governments should be demanding in return
3
Macro Review: Equity Indices
4
Macro Review: US Treasuries
5
Macro Review: Corporate Bonds
6
Macro Review: Oil & Copper
7
Macro Review: Gold & Bitcoin
8
Global Equities: By Region
9
Global Equities: By Sector
10
Global Equities: Industry Winners & Losers
11
Bailouts & Buybacks: The Questions
¨ In this week's update, I focus on a variable that people 
have pointed to, often with nothing more than anecdotal 
evidence, as a potential culprit in the crisis, and that is 
stock buybacks. 
¨ Their argument is that companies that have bought back 
stock, often with borrowed money, are the ones that 
have led us to the precipice, and that the viral shock to 
the economy is just a tipping point for these companies.
¨ The solution that they offer is a familiar one. Companies 
should be barred or restricted severely from buyingback
their own stock.
12
A Test: Buybacks vs No Buybacks
13
A follow up with dividends
14
The Debt/ Buyback Interaction: US stocks
15
There is uncertainty…
¨ Historical data may be recent, but it is already dated: The most recent financial 
statements are only a few weeks ago but the revenues and earnings numbers 
reported in those recent financial statements seem almost useless, a reflection of 
a different economic setting. The same can be said about equity risk premiums 
and default spreads.
¨ This year will deliver bad news : There is almost no doubt that 2020 will be a bad 
year for all companies, with the key questions being how much of a drop in 
revenues companies will see this year and how this will translate into earnings 
shocks. 
¨ Survival has become a central question : The magnitude of the shock to corporate 
bottom lines and the speed with which it has happened will put companies at risk, 
leaving debt-burdened and young companies exposed to default and distress. 
¨ The post-virus economy will be different from the pre -crisis version: Every major 
crisis creates changes in business environment, regulations and business models 
that reshapes the economy and resets competitive games, setting the stage for 
new winners and losers.
16
And the dark side beckons…
¨ f your concept of valuation is downloading last year's 
financials for a company into a spread sheet and then using 
historical growth rates, with some mean reversion thrown in, 
to forecast future numbers, you are probably feeling lost right 
now, and with good reason.
¨ It is also not a time to wring our hands, complain that there is 
too much uncertainty and argue that the fundamentals don't 
matter. 
¤ If you do so, you will be drawn to the dark side of investing, where 
fundamentals don't matter (paradigm shifts, anyone?), new pricing 
metrics get invented and you are at the mercy of mood and 
momentum. 
¨ Ironically, it is precisely at times like these that you need to go 
back to basics.
17
The Basics of Value
18
A Post-Corona Version
19
Try it out on your own…
¨ I have a spreadsheet, with a video guide, that is 
structured around these inputs and allows you to value 
any company. 
¤ Spreadsheet: 
http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New_Home_Page /pc/fcf
fsimpleginzuCorona.xlsx
¤ Video guide: https://youtu.be/F9GfXJ-IrSA
¨ You are trying to make a judgment call in a period of 
incredible volatility, where no one (managers, analysts, 
governments) know what is coming, but your reasoned 
guess is as good as anyone's estimate. So, be bold, make 
your best estimate, and remember that you can revisit 
your numbers! Carpe diem!
