Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/FoundationsOnline/slides/session8.pdf

SESSION 8: VALUING RESIDUAL 
CLAIMS (EQUITY)
2
Valuing Equity
¨Equity represents a residual cashflow rather than a 
promised cashflow.
¨You can value equity in one of two ways:
¤By discounting cashflows to equity at the cost of equity to 
arrive at the value of equity directly.
¤By discounting cashflows to the firm at the cost of capital 
to arrive at the value of the business. Subtracting out the 
firm’s outstanding debt should yield the value of equity.
3
Equity Valuation
4
Equity Cash Flows
¨Dividends: Strictly speaking, the only cash flow that 
equity investors in a publicly traded firm get from the 
firm is dividends. The earliest valuation models were 
built around dividends.
¨Free Cash Flow to Equity: This is a measure of potential 
dividends. We consider a broader definition of cash flow 
to which we call free cash flow to equity, defined as the 
cash left over after operating expenses, interest 
expenses, net debt payments and reinvestment needs. 
By net debt payments, we are referring to the difference 
between new debt issued and repayments of old debt. If 
the new debt issued exceeds debt repayments, the free 
cash flow to equity will be higher.
5
The Cost of Equity
¨The cost of equity is the rate of return that equity 
investors demand for being invested in the stock. It 
should reflect the risk that they see in the stock, 
with higher risk going with higher costs of equity.
¨It can be different for different investors in the same 
business, but when valuing that business, you should 
use the cost of equity of the marginal investors in 
the stock.
6
A Simple Example: A stable growth dividend 
paying stock
¨ConsolidatedEdison,theutilitythatproducespowerfor
muchofNewYorkcity,paiddividendspershareof$4.00in
2016,roughly70%ofitsearningspershareinthatyear.
¨Itisamaturefirmthatexpectstogrow2%ayearin
perpetuity(withdividendsfollowingsuit)
¨The cost of equity for the firm is 8%.
¨Thevaluepersharecanbeestimatedasfollows:
Value of Equity per share = $4.00 (1.02) / (.08 -.02) = $ 68.00
¨Thestockwastradingat$70pershareatthetimeofthis
valuation.Wecouldarguethatbaseduponthisvaluation,the
stockisslightlyovervalued.
7
A FCFE Aside
¨When you are using dividends to value Con Ed, you 
are implicitly assuming that it is paying out what it 
can afford. 
¨Assume that you are able to compute the cash flows 
left over after reinvestment needs and debt 
payments and it is $4.25/share for the most recent 
12 months.
Value of Con Ed = $4.25 (1.02)/(.08-.02) = $72.25
8
Firm Valuation
9
Cash Flow to the Firm
¨Cash flow to Firm: There is also a broader definition 
of cash flow that we can use, where we look at not 
just the equity investors in the asset, but at the total 
cash flows generated by the asset for both the 
equity investor and the lender . 
¨This cash flow, which is before debt payments but 
after operating expenses and taxes, is called the cash 
flow to the firm.
10
The Cost of Capital
¨The cost of capital is a composite cost of all of the 
capital invested in an asset or business. It brings in 
the cost and weight of debt.
¤The cost of debt is the rate at which a business can borrow 
money, long term, today.
¤The cost of capital will be a weighted average of the cost of 
equity and the after-tax cost of borrowing.
Cost of Capital = Cost of Equity (Equity/ (Debt + Equity) 
+ Cost of Debt (1-tax rate) (Debt/(Debt+ Equity)
11
The four determinants of the value of a 
business…
12
Valuation Consistency
¨If you make consistent assumptions about cash 
flows, debt ratios and risk, you should get the same 
value for equity, whether you value equity directly 
(by discounting cash flows to equity at the cost of 
equity) or indirectly (by discounting cash flows to the 
firm at the cost of capital).
¨It is really difficult to stay consistent as you move 
from one approach to the other .
