Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session1test.pdf

Session	  1:	  Post	  Class	  tests	  
1. Which	  of	  the	  following	  decisions	  is	  a	  corporate	  finance	  decision?	  
a. An	  acquisition	  of	  another	  company	  
b. A	  change	  in	  pricing	  strategy	  
c. An	  accounting	  revaluation	  of	  assets	  on	  the	  balance	  sheet	  (with	  no	  tax	  
implications)	  
d. A	  decision	  to	  carry	  less	  inventory	  (even	  if	  it	  means	  lost	  sales)	  
e. Adding	  a	  child	  care	  center	  for	  employee’s	  children	  
f. All	  of	  the	  above	  
g. None	  of	  the	  above	  
2. Corporate	  finance	  is	  built	  around	  the	  “financial”	  balance	  sheet,	  where	  assets	  
are	  categorized	  into	  assets	  in	  place	  and	  growth	  assets.	  Assume	  that	  you	  are	  
investing	  in	  a	  company	  that	  derives	  its	  value	  primarily	  from	  growth	  assets.	  
Given	  the	  description	  of	  growth	  assets	  as	  the	  value	  of	  investments	  that	  you	  
expect	  the	  firm	  to	  make	  in	  the	  future,	  which	  of	  the	  following	  would	  you	  
expect	  to	  see	  in	  terms	  of	  the	  rest	  of	  corporate	  finance?	  
a. The	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  a	  lot	  of	  debt	  and	  pays	  little	  out	  to	  its	  
stockholders	  
b. The	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  primarily	  equity	  and	  pays	  out	  large	  amounts	  
to	  its	  stockholders	  
c. The	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  primarily	  equity	  and	  pays	  little	  out	  to	  its	  
stockholders	  
d. The	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  a	  lot	  of	  debt	  and	  pays	  out	  large	  amounts	  to	  its	  
stockholders.	  
3. In	  the	  big	  picture	  of	  corporate	  finance,	  the	  first	  big	  piece	  is	  the	  investment	  
decision.	  Which	  of	  the	  following	  best	  characterizes	  that	  decision?	  
a. Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  make	  them	  more	  profitable	  
b. Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  generate	  the	  most	  cash	  flows	  
c. Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  earn	  the	  highest	  returns	  
d. Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  earn	  returns	  greater	  than	  the	  risk	  
free	  rate	  
e. Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  earn	  returns	  greater	  than	  the	  risk	  
adjusted	  hurdle	  rate	  
4. In	  the	  big	  picture	  of	  corporate	  finance,	  the	  financing	  principle	  lays	  out	  how	  
firms	  should	  approach	  raising	  debt.	  If	  you	  follow	  that	  principle,	  which	  of	  the	  
following	  is	  your	  best	  choice	  to	  borrow?	  
a. Debt	  with	  the	  lowest	  interest	  rate	  attached	  to	  it	  
b. The	  longest	  term	  debt	  that	  you	  can	  get	  
c. The	  shortest	  term	  debt	  that	  you	  can	  get	  
d. Debt	  in	  the	  your	  local	  currency	  
e. Debt	  in	  the	  same	  currency	  that	  your	  cash	  flows	  are	  in	  
5. In	  the	  big	  picture	  of	  corporate	  finance,	  the	  dividend	  principle	  states	  that	  
firms	  should	  return	  as	  much	  cash	  as	  they	  can	  to	  their	  owners.	  If	  firms	  
followed	  this	  principle,	  which	  of	  the	  following	  would	  you	  expect	  to	  observe?	  
a. Firms	  will	  pay	  out	  all	  of	  their	  earnings	  as	  dividends/stock	  buybacks
b. Firms	  will	  not	  pay	  out	  any	  of	  their	  earnings	  to	  stockholders	  
c. Firms	  that	  have	  high	  earnings	  and	  low	  growth	  potential	  will	  return	  
more	  cash	  to	  stockholders.	  
d. Firms	  that	  have	  high	  earnings	  and	  high	  growth	  potential	  will	  return	  
more	  cash	  to	  stockholders.	  
e. None	  of	  the	  above
Session	  1:	  Post	  class	  test	  (solutions)	  
1. F.	  	  All	  of	  the	  listed	  are	  corporate	  finance	  decisions,	  since	  they	  all	  
require	  financial	  resources.	  The	  one	  that	  comes	  closest	  to	  not	  making	  
it	  is	  the	  accounting	  reevaluation	  because	  it	  really	  is	  cosmetic.	  The	  only	  
reason	  I	  include	  it	  is	  because	  you	  have	  to	  pay	  the	  accountants	  to	  do	  
this	  cosmetic	  restatement.	  
2. c.	  That	  the	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  primarily	  equity	  and	  pays	  little	  out	  
to	  its	  stockholders.	  If	  you	  are	  a	  firm	  that	  derives	  your	  value	  from	  
growth	  assets,	  you	  cannot	  afford	  debt	  (since	  you	  don’t	  have	  much	  in	  
existing	  assets	  &	  cash	  flows)	  and	  you	  need	  all	  your	  cash	  to	  go	  back	  
into	  the	  firm	  to	  generate	  future	  growth	  (and	  thus	  cannot	  return	  cash	  
to	  stockholders).	  
3. e.	  Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  earn	  returns	  greater	  than	  
the	  risk	  adjusted	  hurdle	  rate.	  It	  is	  not	  enough	  that	  the	  investments	  
are	  profitable	  &	  increase	  growth	  or	  that	  they	  earn	  more	  than	  the	  risk	  
free	  rate.	  The	  projects	  earning	  the	  highest	  returns	  may	  not	  be	  good	  
enough,	  if	  they	  are	  very	  risky.	  
4. e.	  Debt	  in	  the	  same	  currency	  that	  your	  cash	  flows	  are	  in.	  Using	  the	  
cheapest	  debt,	  the	  longest	  term	  debt	  or	  the	  shortest	  term	  debt	  may	  
not	  make	  sense	  if	  the	  debt	  is	  not	  matched	  	  up	  to	  the	  cash	  flows	  on	  the	  
assets.	  Mismatching	  debt	  to	  assets	  increases	  default	  risk.	  
5. c.	  Firms	  that	  have	  high	  earnings	  and	  low	  growth	  potential	  will	  return	  
more	  cash	  to	  stockholders.	  It	  is	  a	  combination	  of	  having	  lots	  of	  
earnings	  (cash	  flows)	  and	  not	  that	  much	  to	  invest	  those	  cash	  flows	  in	  
that	  creates	  the	  opportunity	  to	  return	  more	  cash.
