Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/UberUserJune2017.pdf

USER	AND	SUBSCRIBER	
ECONOMICS:	A	USER-BASED	
VALUATION	OF	UBER
All	about	users?
2
Push	back	on	Uber	Valuation
¨ Input	disagreement:	My	Uber	DCF	valuation	has	had	plenty	of	push	
back,	with	many	disagreeing	with	my	assumptions.	That	is	part	and	
parcel	of	valuing	companies	and	I	welcome	that	feedback.	
¨ Model	debate:	There	was	a	debate	about	whether	the	problem	
was	not	with	the	inputs	but	with	the	DCF	model	itself	and	the	
argument	that	DCF	was	designed	for	old	economy	companies	and	
not	suited	to	new	economy	firms	that	are	more	focused	on	
accumulating	users	&	subscribers,	making	them	stick	with	the	firm	
and	sell	them	products	&	services	over	long	periods.
¨ DCF	is	flexible:	I	have	long	argued	that	DCF	models	are	much	more	
flexible	than	most	people	give	them	credit	for,	and	that	they	can	be	
modified	to	reflect	other	frameworks,	and	that	if	you	have	a	
problem	with	a	DCF	value,	it	should	not	be	with	the	model	but	with	
the	person	using	that	model.
3
DCF:	Aggregated	versus	Disaggregated	
Valuation
¨ DCF	First	Principle:	The	value	of	a	business	is	the	present	value	of	
the	expected	cash	flows	from	that	business,	with	the	discount	rate	
adjusted	for	risk.	That	is	true	for	any	business,	manufacturing	or	
service,	small	or	large,	old	economy	or	new	economy.	
¨ DCF	Practice:	Since	that	is	the	truest	description	of	a	discounted	
cash	flow	valuation,	the	problems	that	critics	must	have	with	a	DCF	
is	not	with	the	DCF ,	per	se,	but	in	how	I	estimate	cash	flows	and	
value	in	a	DCF.	
¨ Aggregated	Valuation:	I	followed	the	aggregated	model	for	
discounted	cash	flow	valuation	where	I	estimated	the	cash	flows	to	
Uber	as	a	company,	starting	with	its	revenues	and	working	through	
the	consolidated	expenses	and	total	reinvestment	each	year .	Along	
the	way,	I	had	to	make	assumptions	about	a	total	market	that	Uber	
would	go	after,	the	market	share	that	I	expect	the	company	to	get	
in	that	market	and	the	operating	margins	in	steady	state.
4
Disaggregated	Valuation:	Forms
¨ Business	Units:	In	a	sum	of	the	parts	valuation	(SOTP),	you	can	break	a	
multi-business	company	into	its	individual	business	units	and	value	each	
unit	separately.	In	fact,	I	have	a	paper	where	I	describe	the	process	of	
doing	a	SOTP	valuation,	using	United	Technologies,	a	conglomerate,	as	my	
example.	If	that	SOTP	valuation	is	much	higher	than	the	value	that	the	
market	attaches	to	the	company,	you	may	very	find	an	activist	investor	
targeting	the	company.
¨ Geographical	Groupings:	When	valuing	a	multinational,	like	Coca	Cola,	
you	can	break	the	company's	operations	down	geographically	and	value	
geographical	grouping	(Asia,	Latin	America,	North	America,	Europe)	
separately,	not	only	using	different	assumptions	about	growth	and	risk	in	
region	but	even	different	currencies	for	each	region.
¨ Unit-based	Valuation:	When	valuing	any	company,	you	can	try	to	value	it	
on	a	unit-basis,	building	up	to	its	value	by	valuing	each	unit	separately	and	
then	aggregating	across	units.
5
Why	aggregated	valuation?
¨ Law	of	large	numbers:	To	the	extent	that	your	estimation	errors	on	a	unit	basis	are	
uncorrelated	or	lightly	correlated,	your	estimates	on	an	aggregated	level	will	be	more	
precise	than	the	unit-based	estimates.	
¨ Information	Vacuums:	Information	on	a	disaggregated	basis	is	difficult	to	get	for	
individual	businesses,	geographies,	products	or	users,	if	you	are	an	investor	looking	at	a	
company	from	the	outside.	If	you	are	doing	your	valuation	from	inside	the	company	(as	
an	owner	or	venture	capitalist),	you	may	be	able	to	get	this	information,	but	as	you	will	
see	with	my	Uber	user	valuation,	even	insiders	will	face	limits.
¨ Missing	Value	Pieces:	When	valuing	a	company	on	a	disaggregated	business,	it	is	easy	
to	overlook	some	items	that	are	consequential	for	value.	In	sum	of	the	parts	valuation,	
for	instance,	analysts	are	so	caught	up	in	estimating	the	values	of	individual	businesses	
that	they	forget	to	value	"corporate	costs",	which	can	be	a	multi-billion	drag	on	value.	
¨ Corporate	Structure:	There	are	some	items	that	are	easier	to	deal	with	at	the	aggregate	
level,	because	that	is	where	they	affect	the	business.	Thus,	you	can	model	when	taxes	
come	due	and	the	effect	of	losses	easier	when	you	are	valuing	an	aggregated	business	
than	when	you	are	valuing	it	on	a	disaggregated	level.	Similarly,	if	you	are	concerned	
about	legal	penalties	or	corporate	governance,	these	are	better	addressed	at	the	
aggregated	level.
6
Why	disaggregated	valuation?
¨ Incorporate	key	differences:	In	aggregated	valuation,	you	miss	
key	differences	across	disaggregated	units	(business,	
geographies,	products,	users)	as	well	as	the	missing	of	
competitive	advantages	that	apply	only	to	some	units	of	the	
business	and	not	to	others. With	disaggregated	valuation,	you	
can	bring	these	in.
¨ Connect	stories	to	value:	If	the	story	being	told	by	a	business	
person	or	entrepreneur	is	a	unit-based	story	(users,	
subscribers),	building	a	valuation	that	is	related	to	those	units	
is	better .
¨ Connect	to	better	business	decisions:	To	the	extent	that	
insiders	can	obtain	the	information	to	value	a	business	on	a	
disaggregated	basis,	you	can	use	that	information	to	improve	
the	way	the	company	is	run	and	to	increase	its	value.
7
User	Based	Valuation
¨ To	value	a	company,	based	on	its	users,	you	have	to	
value	an	individual	user	first	and	then	estimate	the	
cost	of	acquiring	new	users.	
Value	of	user-based	company’s	operations	=	
Value	of	existing	users
+	Value	added	by	new	users	
- Value	drag	from	corporate	expenses
8
Valuing	Existing	Users
9
Implications	for	Value
¨ The	value	of	a	user increases	with	user	stickiness	and	
loyalty (captured	in	the	expected	lifetime	of	a	user	and	the	annual	
renewal	rate).
¨ The	value	of	a	user	is directly	proportional	to	the	profitability	of	
serving	that	user (captured	as	the	difference	between	the	revenues	
from	that	user	and	the	cost	of	servicing	that	user)
¨ The	value	of	a	user	is directly	proportional	to	the	growth	that	you	
can	generate	in	profits over	time,	by	either	getting	the	user	to	use	
more	of	your	product	or	service	or	coming	up	with	other	products	
or	services	that	you	can	sell	that	user .
¨ The	value	of	a	user decreases	as	you	become	uncertain	about	your	
future	cash	flows from	that	user,	with	that	uncertainty	being	a	
function	of:
¤ Revenue	Model:	Subscription	versus	Transaction-based	versus	advertising
¤ Discretionary	versus	Non-discretionary	nature	of	product	or	service
10
Valuing	New	Users
11
Implications	for	Value
¨ The	value	added	by	a	new	user increases	with	the	value	of	a	
user,	estimated	in	the	last	section.	You	may	become	a	more	
valuable	firm	with	a	strategy	of	going	for fewer	and	more	
intense	users than	one	with more	and	less	engaged	users.
¨ The	value	added	by	a	new	user decreases	as	the	cost	of	
adding	users	increases.	That	cost	will	be	a	function	of	the	
competitiveness	of	the	business	(increasing	as	competition	
increases)	but	also	of	networking	effects.	In	fact,	if	you	have	
strong	networking	effects,	the	cost	of	adding	new	users	will	
decrease	as	you	accumulate	new	users.
¨ The	value	added	by	a	new	user	decreases	as	you	become	
more	uncertain	about	user	growth.	That	uncertainty	will	be	a	
function	of	competition	and	whether	the	technology	that	you	
have	built	your	product	or	service	on	is	sustainable
12
Valuing	Corporate	Expenses
13
Uber:	Deconstructing	the	Financials
14
Uber’s	Existing	User	Value
15
Existing	User	Value:	What	if?
16
Uber’s	New	User	Value
17
New	User	Value:	What	if?
18
Uber	Corporate	Expense	Value	(Drag)
19
Uber	Valuation	
User	Value Asset	value Company	Value Equity	Value
Existing	Users $16,412.49	
New	Users $20,190.70	
User	Value $36,603.19	 $36,603.19	
- Corporate	Expense	Drag $(10,369.28)
Uber	Operating	Assets $26,233.91	 $26,233.91
+	Cash $5,000.00	
+	Didi Cross	Holding $6,000.00	
Uber	Firm	Value $37,233.91	 $37,233.91	
- Debt $-
Value	of	Equity $37,233.91
20
Bottom	Line
¨ All	valuations	require	assumptions,	whether	you	
value	a	business	on	an	aggregated	basis	or	on	a	
disaggregated	one.	In	fact,	you	usually	require	more	
assumptions	with	the	latter	than	the	former .
¨ Valuing	a	business	on	a	disaggregated	basis	requires	
information	that	is	usually	not	available	to	investors	
who	are	outside	the	company	but	only	to	insiders.
¨ The	lifetime	value	of	a	user	or	subscriber	is	a	DCF	
value.
