Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session2atest.pdf

Session	2A:	Post	Class	tests	
1. The	objective	in	corporate	finance	is	to	maximize	firm	value.	In	practice,	this	
often	gets	narrowed	down	to	maximizing	stock	prices.	Which	of	the	following	
reasons	explain	that	narrowing?	
a. Managers	are	more	answerable	to	shareholders	than	to	bondholders	
(or	banks).	
b. Maximizing	shareholder	value	will	also	maximize	firm	value,	if	bond	
holders	are	protected.	
c. Maximizing	share	prices	will	maximize	shareholder	value,	if	markets	
are	efficient.	
d. Share	prices	are	observable	and	constantly	updated.	
e. All	of	the	above.	
2. We	are	often	told	that	maximizing	stock	prices	is	incompatible	with	having	a	
happy	and	well	taken	care	of	work	force.	In	which	of	the	following	companies	
is	this	conflict	most	likely	to	manifest	itself?	
a. In	a	young,	growth	company	with	lots	of	investment	opportunities	
b. In	a	growing	company,	with	large	profits.	
c. In	a	mature	company,	with	large	profits.	
d. In	a	declining	company	with	a	large	work	force	and	shrinking	profits.	
e. None	of	the	above	
3. Customer	satisfaction	is	the	bedrock	objective	of	many	marketing	gurus.	How	
would	you	reconcile	maximizing	value	with	this	objective?			
a. You	cannot.	You	have	to	pick	one	or	the	other.	
b. Customer	satisfaction	is	irrelevant.	Only	value	matters.	
c. Satisfied	customers	are	more	likely	to	be	repeat	customers,	pushing	
up	revenues	and	value.	
d. Shareholder	value	is	irrelevant.	Only	customer	satisfaction	matters.	
4. Corporate	social	responsibility	is	a	hot	concept,	as	companies	as	asked	to	be	
more	socially	conscious	in	the	decision	making.	How	should	companies	
incorporate	this	into	their	decision	making?	
a. They	should	not.	It	is	their	job	to	make	money.	
b. By	making	maximizing	social	welfare	their	primary	objective.	
c. By	having	dual	objectives	of	maximizing	value	and	maximizing	social	
responsibility.	
d. By	maximizing	value,	with	constraints	on	being	as	socially	conscious	
as	they	can	be,	along	the	way.	
e. By	doing	what	they	have	always	done	to	make	money	but	hiring	a	PR	
firm	to	make	them	look	social	responsible.
