Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/podcasts/cfspr23/session25slides.pdf

131
Why the coefficient on the regression is 
duration..
Aswath Damodaran
131
¨The duration of a straight bond or loan issued by a company 
can be written in terms of the coupons (interest payments) 
on the bond (loan) and the face value of the bond to be –
¨The duration of a bond measures how much the price of the 
bond changes for a unit change in interest rates.
¨Holding other factors constant, the duration of a bond will 
increase with the maturity of the bond, and decrease with 
the coupon rate on the bond.
Duration of Bond = dP/P
dr/r = 
t*Coupont
(1+r)t
t=1
t=N
∑ +N*Face Value
(1+r)N
"
#
$
%
&
'
Coupont
(1+r)t
t=1
t=N
∑ +Face Value
(1+r)N
"
#
$
%
&
'
132
Duration: Comparing Approaches
Aswath Damodaran
132
           δP/δr=
Percentage Change 
in Value for a
percentage change in 
Interest Rates
Traditional Duration
Measures
Regression:
δP = a + b (δr)
Uses:
1. Projected Cash Flows
Assumes:
1. Cash Flows are unaffected by 
changes in interest rates
2. Changes in interest rates are 
small.
Uses:
1. Historical data on changes in 
firm value (market) and interest 
rates
Assumes:
1. Past project cash flows are 
similar to future project cash 
flows.
2. Relationship between cash 
flows and interest rates is 
stable.
3. Changes in market value 
reflect changes in the value of 
the firm.
133
Operating Income versus Interest Rates
Aswath Damodaran
133
¨Regressing changes in operating cash flow against 
changes in interest rates over this period yields the 
following regression –
Change in Operating Income = 0.1698 –7.9339 (Change in Interest Rates) 
(2.69a) (1.40)
Conclusion: Disney’s operating income has been 
affected a lot more than its firm value has by 
changes in interest rates.
134
II. Sensitivity to Changes in GDP/ GNP
Aswath Damodaran
134
¨How sensitive is the firm’s value and operating income 
to changes in the GNP/GDP?
¨The answer to this question is important because 
¤it provides insight into whether the firm’s cash flows are cyclical 
and
¤whether the cash flows on the firm’s debt should be designed 
to protect against cyclical factors.
¨If the cash flows and firm value are sensitive to 
movements in the economy, the firm will either have to 
issue less debt overall, or add special features to the 
debt to tie cash flows on the debt to the firm’s cash 
flows.
135
Regression Results
Aswath Damodaran
135
¨Regressing changes in firm value against changes in the 
GDP over this period yields the following regression –
Change in Firm Value = 0.0067 + 6.7000 (GDP Growth)
(0.06)(2.03a) 
Conclusion: Disney is sensitive to economic growth
¨Regressing changes in operating cash flow against 
changes in GDP over this period yields the following 
regression –
Change in Operating Income = 0.0142 + 6.6443 ( GDP Growth)
(0.13)(2.05a) 
Conclusion: Disney’s operating income is sensitive to 
economic growth as well.
136
III. Sensitivity to Currency Changes
Aswath Damodaran
136
¨How sensitive is the firm’s value and operating 
income to changes in exchange rates?
¨The answer to this question is important, because
¤it provides a measure of how sensitive cash flows and firm 
value are to changes in the currency
¤it provides guidance on whether the firm should issue debt 
in another currency that it may be exposed to.
¨If cash flows and firm value are sensitive to changes 
in the dollar, the firm should
¤figure out which currency its cash flows are in;
¤and issued some debt in that currency
137
Regression Results
Aswath Damodaran
137
¨Regressing changes in firm value against changes in the dollar over 
this period yields the following regression –
Change in Firm Value = 0.1774–0.5705 (Change in Dollar)
(2.76) (0.67)
Conclusion: Disney’s value is sensitive to exchange rate changes, 
decreasing as the dollar strengthens. However, the effect is 
statistically insignificant.
¨Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in the 
dollar over this period yields the following regression –
Change in Operating Income = 0.1680 –1.6773 (Change in Dollar)
(2.82a)(2.13a) 
Conclusion: Disney’s operating income is more strongly impacted by 
the dollar than its value is. A stronger dollar seems to hurt 
operating income.
138
IV . Sensitivity to Inflation
Aswath Damodaran
138
¨How sensitive is the firm’s value and operating 
income to changes in the inflation rate?
¨The answer to this question is important, because
¤it provides a measure of whether cash flows are positively 
or negatively impacted by inflation.
¤it then helps in the design of debt; whether the debt 
should be fixed or floating rate debt.
¨If cash flows move with inflation, increasing 
(decreasing) as inflation increases (decreases), the 
debt should have a larger floating rate component.
139
Regression Results
Aswath Damodaran
139
¨Regressing changes in firm value against changes in inflation over 
this period yields the following regression –
Change in Firm Value = 0.1855 + 2.9966 (Change in Inflation Rate)
(2.96)(0.90)
Conclusion: Disney’s firm value does seem to increase with inflation, but not 
by much (statistical significance is low)
¨Regressing changes in operating cash flow against changes in 
inflation over this period yields the following regression –
Change in Operating Income = 0.1919 + 8.1867 (Change in Inflation Rate)
(3.43a) (2.76a)
Conclusion: Disney’s operating income increases in periods when inflation 
increases, suggesting that Disney does have pricing power .
140
Summarizing…
Aswath Damodaran
140
¨Looking at the four macroeconomic regressions, we 
would conclude that 
¤Disney’s assets collectively have a duration of about 2.33 
years
¤Disney is increasingly affected by economic cycles
¤Disney is hurt by a stronger dollar
¤Disney’s operating income tends to move with inflation
¨All of the regression coefficients have substantial 
standard errors associated with them. One way to 
reduce the error (a la bottom up betas) is to use 
sector-wide averages for each of the coefficients.
141
Bottom-up Estimates
Aswath Damodaran
141
These weights reflect 
the estimated values of 
the businesses
142
Recommendations for Disney
Aswath Damodaran
142
¨The debt issued should be long term and should 
have duration of about 4.3 years.
¨A significant portion of the debt should be floating 
rate debt, reflecting Disney’s capacity to pass 
inflation through to its customers and the fact that 
operating income tends to increase as interest rates 
go up.
¨Given Disney’s sensitivity to a stronger dollar, a 
portion of the debt should be in foreign currencies. 
The specific currency used and the magnitude of the 
foreign currency debt should reflect where Disney 
makes its revenues. One simple proxy is the 18% 
that Disney derives in revenues from outside the US.
143
Analyzing Disney’s Current Debt
Aswath Damodaran
143
¨Disney has $14.3 billion in interest-bearing debt with a face-value 
weighted average maturity of 7.92 years. Allowing for the fact that the 
maturity of debt is higher than the duration, this would indicate that 
Disney’s debt may be a little longer than would be optimal, but not by 
much.
¨Of the debt, about 5.49% of the debt is in non-US dollar currencies (Indian 
rupees and Hong Kong dollars), but the rest is in US dollars and the 
company has no Euro debt. Based on our analysis, we would suggest that 
Disney increase its proportion of Euro debt to about 12% and tie the 
choice of currency on future debt issues to its expansion plans.
¨Disney has no convertible debt and about 5.67% of its debt is floating rate 
debt, which looks low , given the company’s pricing power . While the mix 
of debt in 2013 may be reflective of a desire to lock in low long-term 
interest rates on debt, as rates rise, the company should consider 
expanding its use of foreign currency debt.
144
Adjusting Debt at Disney
Aswath Damodaran
144
¨It can swap some of its existing fixed rate, dollar debt for 
floating rate, foreign currency debt. Given Disney’s 
standing in financial markets and its large market 
capitalization, this should not be difficult to do.
¨If Disney is planning new debt issues, either to get to a 
higher debt ratio or to fund new investments, it can use 
primarily floating rate, foreign currency debt to fund 
these new investments. Although it may be mismatching 
the funding on these investments, its debt matching will 
become better at the company level.
145
Debt Design for Bookscape & Vale
Aswath Damodaran
145
¨Bookscape:Given Bookscape’sdependence on revenues at its New York 
bookstore, we would design the debt to be 
Recommendation: Long-term, dollar denominated, fixed rate debt
Actual: Long term operating lease on the store
¨Vale:Vale’s mines are spread around the world, and it generates a large 
portion of its revenues in China (37%). Its mines typically have very long 
lives and require large up-front investments, and the costs are usually in 
the local currencies, but its revenues are in US dollars.
¤Recommendation: Long term, dollar-denominated debt (with hedging of local 
currency risk exposure) and if possible, tied to commodity prices.
¤Actual: The existing debt at Vale is primarily US dollar debt (65.48%), with an 
average maturity of 14.70 years. All of the debt, as far as we can assess, is fixed 
rate and there is no commodity-linked debt.
146
And for Tata Motors and Baidu
¨Tata Motors: As an manufacturing firm, with big chunks of its 
of its revenues coming from India and China (about 24% 
apiece) and the rest spread across developed markets.
¤Recommendation: Medium to long term, fixed rate debt in a mix of 
currencies reflecting operations.
¤Actual:  The existing debt at Tata Motors is a mix of Indian rupee debt 
(about 71%) and Euro debt (about 29%), with an average maturity of 
5.33 years and it is almost entirely fixed rate debt.
¨Baidu:Baidu has relatively little debt at the moment, 
reflecting its status as a young, technology company. 
¤Recommendation: Convertible, Chinese Yuan debt. 
¤Actual: About 82% of Baidu’s debt is in US dollars and Euros currently, 
with an average maturity of 5.80 years. A small portion is floating rate 
debt, but very little of the debt is convertible. 
Aswath Damodaran
146
RETURNING CASH TO THE 
OWNERS: DIVIDEND POLICY
“Companies don’t have cash. They hold cash for 
their stockholders.”
Aswath Damodaran 147
148
First Principles
Aswath Damodaran
148
149
Steps to the Dividend Decision… if it is 
treated as a residual claim
Aswath Damodaran
149
150
The Roots of Dividend Dysfunction
¨In practice, dividend policy is dysfunctional and does 
not follow the logical process of starting with your 
investment opportunities and working your way 
down to residual cash.
¨The two dominant factors driving dividend policy 
around the world are:
¤Inertia: Companies seem to hate to let of their past, when 
it comes to dividend policy.
¤Me-too-ism: Companies want to behave like their peer 
group.
Aswath Damodaran
150
151
I. Dividends are sticky
Aswath Damodaran
151
152
In 2020, a crisis year for many companies…here is 
what they did..
Aswath Damodaran
152
¨Of the S&P 500 companies, 287 companies increased 
their dividends and 11 companies initiated dividends.
¨Of the S&P 500 companies, 27 decreased dividends and 
42 suspended dividends.
¨While the 42 dividend suspensions were the most in the last 20 
years, the number of companies that increased divbidends(298) 
vastly exceeded the number that cut or suspended dividends 
(69).
¨In perhaps the most revealing statistic of all, 133 of the 500 
largest market cap companies did not pay dividends leading into 
2020 or in 2020.
153
II. Dividends tend to follow earnings
Aswath Damodaran
153
III. Are affected by changes in tax laws…
In 2003
 In the last quarter of 2012
¨As the possibility of tax rates 
reverting back to pre-2003 
levels rose, 233 companies 
paid out $31 billion in 
dividends.
¨Of these companies, 101 
had insider holdings in 
excess of 20% of the 
outstanding stock. Tax rates on dividends brought 
down to the tax rate on capital 
gains in 2003
