Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/postclass/session2test.pdf

Session	2:	Post	Class	tests	
1. In	accrual	accounting,	you	record	transactions	as	they	occur,	not	when	
payment	is	received	or	made.	Assume	that	you	sell	a	3-year	service	contract	
for	$150	million	at	the	start	of	a	fiscal	year,	and	that	you	get	paid	half	of	that	
amount	up	front	and	the	other	half	two	years	from	now.	Using	accrual	
accounting	principles,	how	much	should	you	show	as	revenues	this	year?	
a. $	50	million	
b. $	75	million	
c. $	125	million	
d. $	150	million	
e. None	of	the	above	
2. Accountants	draw	a	distinction	between	cost	of	goods	sold	and	other	
operating	expenses	in	computing	gross	and	operating	income.	As	a	
manufacturing	company,	in	which	of	these	two	groups	would	you	include	
each	of	the	following	expenses?	
a. Material	used	to	produce	products/services	
b. Labor	expenses	
c. Selling	and	Marketing	Expenses	
d. G&A	costs	
e. Factory	maintenance	costs	
3. There	are	usually	three	measures	of	income	in	an	income	statement:	gross	
profits,	operating	income	and	net	income.	For	a	company	that	has	a	very	low	
cost	of	goods	sold,	very	high	selling	and	G&A	expenses	and	lots	of	debt,	which	
of	the	following	would	you	expect	to	see	in	the	income	statement?	
a. High	gross	profits,	high	operating	profits,	high	net	profits	
b. High	gross	profits,	low	operating	profits,	high	net	profits	
c. High	gross	profits,	low	operating	profits,	even	lower	net	profits	
d. Low	gross	profits,	low	operating	profits,	even	lower	net	profits	
e. High	gross	profits,	high	operating	profits,	low	net	profits	
4. If	your	company	owns	a	5%	(minority)	stake	in	another	company	
(subsidiary),	where	in	the	income	statement	would	you	expect	to	see	the	
profit	effects	of	this	holding?	
a. In	the	company’s	revenues	
b. In	the	company’s	gross	profits	
c. In	the	company’s	operating	profits	
d. In	the	company’s	net	profits	
e. No	where	
5. If	an	item	is	an	extraordinary	expense,	which	of	the	following	should	you	
expect	to	see	for	this	item	in	your	income	statements	over	time?	
a. The	expense	will	show	up	every	year,	albeit	with	different	values	
b. The	expense	will	show	up	most	years,	sometimes	positive,	sometimes	
negative.	
c. The	expense	will	show	up	at	regular	intervals	(every	3	years)	
d. The	expense	will	show	up	infrequently	and	without	regularity	
e. None	of	the	above
