Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session3.pdf

SESSION 3: BALANCE SHEETS -
ASSETS OWNED & MONEY OWED 
Accounting for Finance
2
The Balance Sheet: Dueling Views
qRecord of capital invested: There are some (including 
me) who believe that the main function of a balance 
sheet is to record how much a business has invested in 
its assets-in-place, i.e., the assets that allow for its 
current operations to occur .
qMeasure of current value: There is a large and perhaps 
dominant school of thought among accountants, or at 
least accounting rule writers, that a balance sheet should 
reflect the value of the business today.
qLiquidation value: There is a third school, with lenders to 
the firm among its primary members, who feel that a 
balance should reflect what you would get for the assets 
of the firm, if you liquidated them today.
3
Revisiting the Balance Sheet
4
Fixed and Current Assets
qThe Old Way: If you are old enough to learned your 
accounting two or three decades ago, the way you were 
taught to value fixed and current assets was to show 
them at original cost, net of accounting depreciation. 
qThe New Way: As accounting has increasingly adopted 
the fair value standard, there has been a move to mark 
assets to current market value. 
qDivergent Effects: The difference in values that you get 
for assets, using the two approaches, varies. It is
qGreater on older assets than on newer ones
qGreater on fixed assets than current assets
5
Financial Assets
¨Financial assets can take the form of holdings of securities or part 
ownership of other companies, private or public.
¨With holdings of publicly traded securities, the movement to using 
current market prices to mark up their values is almost complete. 
¨With equity ownership in other companies, the rules can vary 
depending on
¤Whether the stake is viewed as a majority stake (>50%) or a minority stake. 
The former will lead to full consolidation (where 100% of the subsidiaries 
revenues and operating income will be included in the parent company’s 
financials, with the portion that is not owned shown as minority or non-
controlling interest on the liability side) and with the latter, the actual 
stake will be shown as an asset.
¤With a minority stake, whether it is held for trading or as a long-term 
investment. With the former, the holding will be marked to market. With 
the latter, it will be shown at book value terms.
6
Intangible Assets
¨Big game: Accountants talk a big game when it 
comes to intangible assets, and from that talk, you 
would think that they have figured out how to value 
the big intangibles (brand name, management 
quality etc.).
¨But different reality: In reality, accountants are 
much better at valuing small-bore intangibles like 
licenses and customer lists, where the earnings and 
cash flows from the intangible are observable and 
forecastable than they are at valuing the big 
intangibles.
7
Goodwill: The Most Dangerous Intangible
¨After all the talk of intangibles in accounting, it is telling 
that the bulk of intangible assets on accounting balance 
sheets across the world take the form of one item: 
goodwill.
¨Goodwill may sound good, but it is a plug variable that 
signifies little. 
¤For goodwill to manifest itself on a balance sheet, a company 
has to do an acquisition.
¤When that acquisition occurs, goodwill is measured as the 
difference between the price paid on the acquisition and the 
target company’s asset value (dressed up book value).
¤It shows up as an asset because without it in place, balance 
sheets would not balance.
8
Goodwill Impairment: Valuable information or 
Make-work-for-accountants?
¨Old rules: For much of the last century, goodwill once created in an 
acquisition, was written off on autopilot, often amortized over long 
periods in equal installments.
¨New Rules: In the late 1990s, both GAAP and IFRS rewrote the 
rules, requiring accountants to revisit goodwill estimates each year, 
and make judgments on whether the goodwill had been impaired 
or not. To make that judgment, accountants would have to revisit 
the target company valuations and decide whether the value had 
increased (in which case goodwill would be left unchanged) or 
decreased (and goodwill would be impaired).
¨Is it informational? The rationale for this rule change was to 
provide information to markets, but since goodwill impairments 
are often based upon market pricing movements (in the sector) 
and lag them by months and sometimes years, the effect of 
goodwill impairments on stock prices has been negligible.
9
Current Liabilities
qCurrent liabilities can be broadly broken into three 
groups:
qNon-interest-bearing liabilities, such as accounts payable and 
supplier credit, which represent part of normal operations.
qInterest-bearing short-term borrowings such as commercial 
paper, short term debt and the short term portion (<1 year) of 
long term debt.
qDeferred salaries, taxes and other amounts due in the short 
term.
qWhen computing non-cash working capital, we do not 
include interest-bearing short term debt in the 
calculation, moving it instead into the debt column.
10
Debt Due
¨When companies borrow money, it can take three forms:
¤Corporate bonds, represent debt raised from public markets
¤Bank loans, debt raised from banks and other lending institiutions
¤Lease debt, arising out of lease contracts requiring lease payments 
in future years. Until 2019, only leases classified as capital leases 
qualified, but since 2019, operating lease commitments are also 
debt.
¨The mark-to-market movement on the asset side of the 
balance sheet has been muted on the liability side of the 
balance sheet. Bank debt, for the most part, is recorded as 
originally borrowed, and corporate bonds due, are for the 
most part not marked to market.
11
Debt details
¨While balance sheets are the repositories for total 
debt due, broken down into current and long term, 
there is additional information on debt in the 
footnotes, for most companies.
¨This additional information can be on two fronts:
¤Individual debt due, with stated interest rates and 
maturities.
¤Additional features on the debt, including floating/fixed 
and straight/convertible provisions.
¤A consolidated table of when debt repayments come due, 
by year .
12
Shareholder’s Equity
qOld ways: The shareholders’ equity in a business was a 
reflection of its entire history, since it started with the 
equity brought in to start the business, adds on equity 
augmentations over time as well as the cumulation of 
retained earnings.
qNew ways: The shareholders’ equity in a business 
reflects the jumbled mess of mark-to-market accounting, 
with all of its contradictions.
qMy cynical view: Old or new ways, shareholders’ equity 
(or book equity) has little hope of ever being a measure 
of the intrinsic value of equity in a business. This quixotic 
quest on the part of accounting will do more damage 
than good.
13
More on shareholders’ equity
¨Par value: This is a throwback in time and should be ignored.
¨Company Age: Since shareholders’ equity reflects a company’s 
cumulated history of equity raises and retained earnings, young 
companies will tend to have far less shareholders’ equity than older 
companies, of equivalent market value.
¨Capitalization effects: Since only capitalized expenses become part 
of assets, shareholders’ equity can be skewed by accounting rules 
and corporate actions on what is capitalized and what is expensed.
¨Buyback effects: Both dividends and buybacks reduce shareholders’ 
equity, by reducing it, but the magnitude of buybacks makes their 
effect more dramatic.
¨Negative equity? There is no mathematical reason why 
shareholders’ equity cannot become negative, either because a 
company has lost money for an extended period or because of 
large buyback/write off.
