Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch10.pdf

VALUING AND 
PRICING YOUNG AND 
START-UP FIRMS
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Stage of Development Typical Target Rates of Return 
Start-up 50 to 70% 
First stage 40 to 60% 
Second stage 35 to 50% 
Bridge / IPO 25 to 35%
§VC valuation (pricing) avoids the serious 
challenges of estimating operating 
details for the long term by cutting off 
the estimates prematurely(with a short 
forecast period) and using a multiple that 
is usually based on what comparable 
companies are trading at currently. 
§There is a degree of sloppiness is 
associated with the use of a target rate
to discount the firm’s future value. While 
the target rate is supposed to include 
both operating and failure risk, it is not 
clear how they are incorporated into the 
stated rates. 
§In short, a venture capital valuation is 
more a forward pricing, discounted 
back at an arbitrarily high discount rate 
with no connection to the actual risk in a 
business.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
1. Cash flow patterns: The expected cash flows 
that underpin your valuation will reflect 
assumptions made about revenue growth, 
operating margins, and reinvestment. 
Specifically, businesses with high revenue 
growth and negative margins that are slow to 
turn positive, will be saddled with negative 
earnings in the early years, and incorporating 
the reinvestment needed to deliver the 
revenue growth will make cash flows more 
negative. 
2. Discount rate check: Separating the risk in a 
young business into operating and failure 
risk, we estimate a cost of capital to reflect 
only the former. Thus, you should not be 
surprised to see costs of capital in young 
company valuation that are much lower than 
the target rates that venture capitalists concoct, 
and more reflective of costs of capital of 
established companies in public markets, if 
investors are diversified. 
3. Failure risk: The failure risk is the input that 
reflects the likelihood that many young 
businesses will not make it, either because 
they run out of cash and lose access to fresh 
capital or because their business models never 
turn to profitability. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§When building a valuation story and 
converting that story into inputs and a 
value, especially with a young growth 
business or start up, it is often easy to 
develop blind spots, andget attached 
to your own stories. 
§As a final step in the process, we would 
recommend keeping the feedback loop 
open, seeking out feedback from 
people who think least like you and 
sometimes are better versed in the 
business details of the company you 
are valuing. 
§Ratherthenbecomedefensive, 
incorporate what you learn from others 
into your story.
Aswath Damodaran
§Transaction fees, from food ordering 
and delivery, as the company keeps 
roughly 20-25% of the total order value 
for itself
§Advertising, since restaurants listed on 
Zomatoalso spend more on advertising, 
based upon customer visits and 
resetting revenues, to get additional 
visibility.
§Subscription services, with 1.5 million 
members, where in return for a 
subscription fee, they get discounts and 
special deals
§Restaurant raw materials, through 
HyperPure, a service directed at 
restaurants, offering groceries and 
meats that are source-checked for 
quality
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§In our Zomato story, the Indian food 
delivery/restaurant market will grow, as 
Indians become more prosperous and have 
increased online access, and this market will be 
dominated by a handful of players, with Zomato 
as one of the dominant players. 
§As an intermediary with strong unit economics, 
Zomato will be see high operating margins, over 
time, and be able to continue to grow with 
relatively little reinvestment, most of it in the form 
of acquisitions. 
§The operating risk in Zomato will be average, 
but as a money-losing company, there remains a 
non-trivial chance of failure, albeit one that will 
be low because of the cash buffer that the 
company will have after the IPO.
§The Indian food delivery market will 
grow:
§We believe that the networking benefits 
inherent in the online food delivery 
business will lead to concentration and
thatZomato will be one of the 
dominant players. 
§In the base case, we will estimate the 
total market for online food delivery 
will increase to $25 billion in a decade, 
with Zomato commanding a 40% 
market share in steady state, and that 
Aswath Damodaran
§In the base case, we assume that the 
pre-tax operating margin for Zomato 
will trend towards 35%, as the company 
approaches maturity.
Aswath Damodaran
§To estimate the reinvestment that 
Zomato will need to deliver its 
expected growth, we will assume that 
the company will remain an 
intermediary and that its 
reinvestment will continue to take 
the form of acquisitions and 
investments in technology.
§In the base case, we will assume that 
the company will be able to deliver Rs 5 
for every rupee of capital invested next 
year, largely due to the rebound from 
COVID, before becoming Rs 3 for 
every rupee invested in years 2-5, 
before and settling in at Rs 2.5 for 
every rupee invested beyond.
Aswath Damodaran
§On the operating risk dimension, Zomato 
will remain primarily an Indian company, 
dependent on Indian macroeconomic 
growth to succeed, and the cost of capital 
should reflect that risk. 
§Zomato is a money losing company, but it 
is not a start-up, facing imminent failure. 
§On the plus side, its size and access to 
capital, as well as its post-IPO augmented 
cash balance, push down the risk of failure. 
§On the minus side, this is a company that is 
still burning through cash and will need 
access to capital in future years to continue 
to survive. 
§In the base case, we will give Zomato a 
Rupee Cost of capital of 10.25% in the 
early years, before adjusting it down to 
about 9% in steady state, and attach a 
likelihood of failure of 10%, to the 
company.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Determine “probabilistic” variables: In any 
analysis, there are potentially dozens of inputs, 
some of which are predictable and some of which 
are not. It makes sense to focus attention on a few 
variables that have a significant impact on value.
§Define probability distributions for these 
variables: You c an us e a m ix  of his tor ic al d ata, 
industry averages and common sense.
§Check for correlation across variables: When 
there is strong correlation, positive or negative, 
across inputs, you have two choices. 
§One is to pick only one of the two inputs to vary; it 
makes sense to focus on the input that has the bigger 
impact on value. 
§The other is to build the correlation explicitly into the 
simulation; this does require more sophisticated simulation packages and adds more detail to the 
estimation process.
§Run the simulation: For the first simulation, you 
draw one outcome from each distribution and 
compute the value based upon those outcomes. 
This process can be repeated as many times as 
desired, though the marginal contribution of each 
simulation drops off as the number of simulations 
increases. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§There is a potential upside to the uncertainty 
that you face, when valuing young businesses, 
and that comes from the possibility that if the 
stars align, and the products offered by the 
business find wider acceptance than expected, 
it can use that success to enter new businesses 
that do not seem viable today or are not even 
in consideration.  
§This “optionality” will add a premium to the 
value that you estimate for the business, and 
that premium will increase, as uncertainty 
becomes more rampant.
§There is some truth to the argument, but its weight 
rests on not just the number of users and 
subscribers on the platform, but also in how loyal 
they are to the platform and how intense their 
usage is.
§It also depends on whether the platform company 
is accumulating data on the users that can be used 
as a competitive advantage when entering other 
businesses, with more data more exclusive to 
the company, creating more value than data that 
others have access to. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Zomato's platform has the benefit of large 
numbers, but it falls short on both 
intensity and proprietary data. Thus, 
Zomato app users are on the system only 
when they order food, and the 
engagement is often restricted to food 
ordering and delivery. 
§If Zomato plans to expand its offerings to 
its platform-users, it is very likely that 
these add-on businesses will be food-
related, perhaps extending into grocery 
shopping, creating some option value.
§Even if you believe that there is 
optionality, attaching a numerical value to 
that option is one of the most difficult 
tasks in investment. 
§In short, if we were tempted to pay a 
premium over the intrinsic valuation (₹43) 
that we estimated for Zomato earlier, to 
reflect its large user base and optionality, 
that premium should be small, given user 
characteristics.
Aswath Damodaran
§Standardized Price: For a metric to be used as 
a scalar, it has tohave a positive value, at the 
minimum, and have a close connection to 
business value, even if positive. That 
requirement crimps your choices when pricing 
young companies. 
§Peer Group Assembly: With start-ups and very 
young businesses, almost all ofthe peer group 
businesses can be privately owned, and the 
pricing information on these businesses will 
reflect their most recent venture capital rounds 
(which can be both dated and misleading). 
Even as these companies advance on the life 
cycle, and become publicly traded, defining 
them narrowly can make it difficult to find peer 
groups. 
§Controlling for Differences: Assuming that you 
can find a scalar for pricing and are able to 
assemble a peer group of businesses like 
yours that are priced, you will still have to 
determine what it is that investors are looking 
at, when setting prices, and then figure out how 
to control for differences on those 
determinants. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Standardized Price: One alternative is to use an 
operating metric that you can observe at the 
business that you believe will provide you with 
the pathway to revenues and profitability. Another 
alternative is to forecast the financials of a 
business and use the forecasted values as your 
scalar. 
§Peer Group Assembly: If you are pricing a start-up 
that is still privately owned and all the peer group 
is also privately owned, you often have no choice 
but to stick with the flawed and often stale pricing 
from more recent venture capital rounds at the 
peer group. Once a start-up is publicly traded, we 
would recommend defining its business broadly 
and loosening the criteria for “similar” firm, to get 
more companies in the peer group, even if it 
means bringing in companies from other markets 
or sectors.
§Controlling for Differences: The problem is that 
outside of revenue growth, young businesses have 
profit margins and reinvestment measures that are 
unreliable and shifting. If your intent is to find out 
what the market is pricing into young businesses, 
you can use statistical tools to eke out correlations 
between market prices and observable variables. 
Aswath Damodaran
Doordash
(2020)
Doordash 
(2030 
Forecast) Zomato (2020)
Zomato (2030 
Forecast)
Market 
Capitalization $57,860 $8,600
Enterprise 
Value $53,640 $7,500
Gross 
Bookings $18,897 $72,072 $1,264 $10,038 
Revenues $3,601 $9,009 $266 $2,208 
Gross Income $1,864 $4,955 $140 $1,325 
EBIT -$412 $1,802 -$64 $773 
Platform 
Users 20 50 40 200
Current Forward Current Forward 
EV/GOV 2.84 0.74 5.93 0.75
EV/Revenues 14.90 5.95 28.20 3.40
EV/ Gross 
Income 28.78 10.83 53.57 5.66
EV/ User 2682.00 1072.80 187.50 37.50
Aswath Damodaran
