Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session4atest.pdf

Session	4a:	Post	Class	tests	
1. Cipra	Inc.	is	a	large,	publicly	traded	pharmaceutical	company	with	100	million	
shares	outstanding,	trading	at	$	20/share.	It	has	just	announced	an	acquisition	
bid	at	$15	share,	for	Lexma	Inc.,	a	smaller	pharmaceutical	company,	with	50	
million	shares,	currently	trading	at	$10	a	share,	arguing	that	the	premium	is	
justified	by	the	synergy	in	the	deal.	If	Cipra’s	stock	price	drops	to	$18/share	after	
the	bid	is	announced	and	the	market	is	right,	estimate	the	synergy	that	the	
market	expects	from	the	deal:	
a. $250	million		
b. -$200	million	
c. $50	million	
d. $100	million	
e. Impossible	to	tell	
2. You	are	a	bank	that	has	made	a	fixed	rate,	long-term	loan	to	a	publicly	traded	
company.	The	company	has	a	significant	cash	balance	and	is	under	pressure	to	
act.	Which	of	the	following	actions	would	you	view	as	favorable	to	you	as	a	
lender?	
a. Pay	higher	dividends	
b. Make	an	acquisition	with	the	cash	
c. Buy	back	stock	
d. Retire	short	term	debt	and	hold	on	to	the	remaining	cash	
e. None	of	the	above	
3. When	lenders	worry	about	what	borrowers	will	do	with	the	borrowed	money,	
which	of	the	following	would	you	expect	to	see	as	a	potential	borrower?	
a. Much	higher	interest	rates	on	your	borrowing	
b. Much	lower	interest	rates	on	your	borrowing	
4. If	you	maximize	stock	prices,	you	are	effectively	assuming	that	the	market	is	
rational	and	efficient.	Many	managers	and	management	thinkers	argue	that	
markets	are	too	short	term.	Which	of	the	following	is	clear	proof		that	markets	
are	short	term?	
a. The	stock	price	goes	down	on	the	announcement	of	an	acquisition	
b. The	stock	price	goes	up	when	a	company	lays	off	employees	
c. The	stock	price	goes	up	when	a	company	borrows	money	
d. The	stock	price	goes	up	when	a	company	reports	poor	earnings	
e. All	of	the	above	
f. None	of	the	above	
5. One	of	the	problems	with	the	information	flow	to	financial	markets	is	that	
companies	delay	revealing	bad	news	to	markets,	waiting	for	a	good	time.	If	this	
is	the	norm,	which	of	the	following	would	you	expect	to	observe	in	a	rational	
market	when	it	comes	to	companies?	
a. No	news	is	no	news		
b. No	news	is	good	news	
c. No	news	is	bad	news
