Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/SoftbankWeWork.pdf

THE SOFTBANK-WEWORK END 
GAME: SAVIOR ECONOMICS OR 
SUNK COST PROBLEM?
Aswath Damodaran
2
The WeWork Saga (Continued)
¨ Since my pre-IPO post on WeWork, where I valued the 
company ahead of its then imminent offering, much has 
happened. 
¤ The company’s IPO collapsed under the weight of its own pricing 
contradictions/ 
¤ Softbank emerged as the savior, investing an additional $ 8 
billion in the company, and taking a much larger stake in its 
equity. 
¨ As the WeWork story continues to unfold, I am more 
interested in Softbank than in WeWork, largely because 
its actions cut to the heart of many questions in 
investing.
3
My WeWork IPO Valuation (Sept 9, 2019)
4
The IPO Postscript
¨ Soon after my post, the ground shifted under WeWork, 
as a combination of arrogance (on the part of VCs, 
bankers and founders) and business model risks caught 
up with them, and the IPO was delayed, albeit 
reluctantly by the company. 
¨ That action, though, left the company in a cash crunch, 
since it had been counting on the IPO to bring in $3 
billion in capital to cover its near-term needs. 
¨ In conjunction with a loss of trust in the top 
management of the company, created a vicious cycle 
with the very real possibility that the company would 
implode.
5
The Softbank Rescue Package
¨ Equity Buyout: A tender off of $3 billion in equity to buy out of 
existing stockholders in the firm to increase its share of the equity 
ownership to 80%. In an odd twist, Softbank contended that, after 
the financing, “ it will not hold a majority of the voting rights… and 
does not control the company… WeWork will not be a subsidiary of 
Softbank. WeWork will be an associate of Softbank ”.
¨ Added Capital: Softbank would provide fresh debt financing of $5 
billion and an acceleration of a $1.5 billion equity investment it had 
been planning to make into WeWork in 2020, giving WeWork
respite, at least in the short term, from its cash constraints.
¨ Neutering of Adam Neumann (at a cost): A severing of Adam 
Neumann’s leadership of the company, in return for which he will 
receive $1 billion in cash, $500 million as a loan to repay a JP 
Morgan credit line and $185 million for a four -year position as a 
consultant.
6
The Big Questions
¨ What motivated Softbank to invest so much more in a 
company where it had already lost billions? 
¨ With mark-to-market rules in effect at Softbank, how will 
accountants reflect the WeWork disaster on Softbank’s 
books? 
¨ Is Masa Son a visionary genius or an egomaniac in need 
of checks and balances? 
¨ Since Softbank is a holding company, deriving a chunk of 
its value from its perceived ability to find start-ups and 
young companies and convert them into big wins, how 
will its value change as a result of its WeWork missteps?
7
1. Sunk Cost or Rescue Mission
¨ A corporate rescue: There are some who would 
argue that Softbank had no choice, since without an 
infusion of capital, WeWork was on a pathway to 
being worth nothing and that by investing its capital, 
Softbank would avoid that worst-case scenario. 
¨ A Sunk Cost Problem: Softbank is investing $ 8 billion 
in WeWork, not because it believes that it can 
generate more than amount in incremental value 
from future cash flows, but because it had invested 
$7.5 billion in the past.
8
Resolving the Question
¨ The rescue may have helped it avoid a near term liquidity 
meltdown, but it has taken a highly levered company whose 
only pathway to survival was exponential growth and made it 
an even more levered company with constrained growth.
¨ Masa Son claims that “(t)he logic is simple. Time will 
resolve . . . and we will see a sharp V-shaped recovery,” in 
WeWork, but I don’t see the logic, time alone cannot resolve 
a $30 billion debt problem and there are enough costs in non-
core businesses to cut to yield a quick recovery. 
¨ To those who would counter that Softbank has a lot of money 
to lose and smart people working for it, note that the more 
money you have to lose and the smarter people think they 
are, the more difficult it becomes to admit to past mistakes, 
exacerbating the sunk cost problem.
9
2. Fair Value Accounting
¨ It is fair price accounting, not fair value : Softbank wrote down its 
WeWork investment by $4.6 billion but the reason for the write -
down, though, was not a reassessment of WeWork’s value, but a 
reaction to the drop in the pricing of the company’s equity.
¨ With the pricing coming from Softbank : Softbank was setting the 
pricing, at both the $47 billion pre -IPO, and the $8 billion, post -
collapse. 
¨ Too little, too late: Given that the write down was based upon 
pricing, not value, the market knew that a write off was coming 
and approximately how much the write off would be, which 
explains why even multi -billion write offs and impairments usually 
have no price effect, when announced. 
¨ With dangerous feedback effects : Companies still seem to think 
that these accounting charges are news that moves markets and 
take actions to minimize them.
10
3. Smart Money or Stupid Money?
¨ I hope that this episode will put to rest the notion of smart money, 
i.e., that there are investors who have access to more information 
than we do, have better analytical tools than the rest of us and use 
those advantages to make more money than the rest of us. 
¨ The ”smart money” view leads us to assume that anyone who 
makes a lot of money must be smart, and Masa Son would have 
been classified as a smart investor, and wealthy investors funneled 
billions of dollars into Softbank Vision funds, on that basis. 
¨ The WeWork misadventure does not Masa Son a stupid investor , 
but it does expose the fact that he is human, capable of letting his 
ego get ahead of good sense and that at least some of his success 
over time has to be attributed being in the right place at the right 
time.
11
Humble or Arrogant Money?
¨ I think that investors are better grouped into humble and 
arrogant, with humble investors recognizing that 
success, when it comes, is as much a function of luck as 
it is of skill, and failure, when it too arrives, is part of 
investing and an occasion for learning. 
¨ Arrogant investors claim every investing win as a sign of 
their skill and view every loss as an affront, doubling 
down on their mistakes. 
¨ If I had to pick someone to manage my money, the 
quality that I would value the most in making that choice 
is humility, since humble investors are less likely to 
overpromise and overcommit.
12
Masa Son: A humbragger?
¨ His past: Anyone who makes three hundred year plans and things that 
bigger is always better has a God complex, and success feeds that 
arrogance. 
¨ Penance?: I would like to believe that the WeWork setback has chastened 
Mr . Son, and in his remarks to shareholders this week, he said the right 
things, stating that he had “made a bad investment decision, and was 
deeply remorseful” , speaking of WeWork. 
¨ Words? However, he then undercut his message by not only claiming that 
the pathway to profit for WeWork would be simple (it is not) but also 
asserting that his Vision fund was still better than other venture 
capitalists in seeking out and finding promising companies. 
¨ Judgment day: Masa Son may need a few more reminders about humility 
from the market, since neither his words nor his actions indicate that he 
has learned any lessons.
13
4. Softbank: The WeWork Effect
14
Disproportionate reaction?
¨ Softbank  is a holding company for investments in other 
companies and many of Softbank’s most recent investments 
have been in young, private companies like WeWork. 
¨ With these investments, the pricing attached to them by 
Softbank, in its financials, comes from recent VC funding 
rounds and their valuations reflect trust in Softbank’s capacity 
to pick winners and WeWorkhurts on both counts.
¤ First, investors are more wary about trusting VC pricing, especially if 
Softbank has been a lead investor in funding rounds, since that is how 
you arrived at the $47 billion pricing for WeWork in the first place. 
¤ Second, the notion of Masa Son as an investing savant, skilled at 
picking the winners of the disruption game, has been damaged, at 
least for the moment and perhaps irreparably.
15
A measure of trust
16
What now?
¨ The price to book ratio continues its march towards parity, with the 
market capitalization at 123% of the book value of equity in 
November 2019. In fact, if you focus just on Softbank’s non-
consolidated holdings, public and private, note that the market 
capitalization of Softbank now stands at 73% of the value of just 
these holdings, most of which are marked to market. 
¨ While it looks like a great deal, there are two considerations that 
may affect your decision. 
¤ The company has a vast amount of debt on its balance sheet that has to be 
serviced, potentially putting your equity at risk
¤ You are getting Softbank (and Masa Son) as the custodian of the 
investments. If you have lost faith in Masa Son’s investing judgments, you 
may view the 27% discount that the market is attaching to Softbank’s 
holdings as entirely justifiable and steer away from the stock. 
¤ As for me, I don’t plan to own Softbank! I don’t like grandiosity, and Masa 
seems to have been soaked in it.
