Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TrillionDollarDuo.pdf

APPLE AND AMAZON AT A 
TRILLION $: LOOKING BACK & 
FORWARD!
The story behind the march to a trillion
2
Apple and Amazon hit a trillion $ market 
caps…
¨ Apple’s market capitalization exceeded a trillion on 
August 2, 2018, and Amazon’s market capitalization also 
exceeded a trillion just over a month later on September 
4, 2018. 
¨ I admire both companies, and have tracked and valued 
them repeatedly over the last twenty years.  There is 
much that we can learn from both companies, and how 
these two companies got to where they are today, as 
well as their similarities and differences. 
¨ I will also assess where Apple and Amazon stand today 
and update my valuations and investment judgments on 
both companies.
3
The Road to a Trillion
¨ Markets give and markets take away, and this is true 
not just for the laggards in the market, but even the 
most successful companies. 
¨ Apple and Amazon have had amazing runs, but 
without taking anything away from their success, it is 
worth noting that during their march towards trillion 
dollar market capitalizations, each has had to endure 
periods in the wilderness.
¨ Both companies have reinvented themselves and 
adapted to a changing world, and the results are 
testimonial that they have succeeded (so far).
4
Apple’s March…
5
Amazon’s March..
6
The Back Story
¨ We can debate whether Amazon and Apple are 
worth a trillion dollars, but there can be no denying 
that both companies have been successful in their 
businesses, and that it is these operating success 
that lie at the heart of their market values. 
¨ However, the way these companies have evolved 
over time have been very different, and 
understanding the pathways they took to get to 
where they are will lay the foundations for valuing 
them today,.
7
Apple’s Operating History
8
Amazon’s Operating History
9
Apple’s Cash Flow History
10
Amazon’s Cashflow History
11
Story and Valuation
¨ The more interesting and relevant question is what to 
make of each company today, since they clearly are on 
different paths, with very different operating make ups. 
¨ I will lay out my story and valuation for each company, 
with the emphasis on the word "my", since I am sure 
that you have your own story for each company. 
¨ I will leave my valuation spreadsheet open for you to 
download, with the story levers easily changed to reflect 
different stories.
14
The End Game
¨ I have always operated on the premise that if you value companies, 
you should be willing to act on those valuations. 
¨ In the case of Apple and Amazon, that would suggest that the next 
step that I should be taking with each company is to sell. 
¤ With Apple, a stock that I have held for close to three years and which has 
served me well over the period, that would be accomplished by selling my 
holding. 
¤ With Amazon, a stock that I have not held for more than five years, that 
would imply joining the legions of short sellers. 
¨ I am going to leave you in suspense until my next post, because I 
have two loose ends to tie up, before I can act. 
¤ The first is to grapple with the uncertainties that I have about my own 
stories for the two companies and the resulting effects on value. 
¤ The second is what I will mysteriously term "the catalyst effect", which I 
believe is indispensable, especially when you sell short.
