Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/MeanReversion.pdf

MEAN	REVERSION:	UNIVERSAL	
TRUTH	OR	DANGEROUS	
DELUSION!
History	repeats	itself,	until	it	does	not!
2
The	Essence	of	Mean	Reversion
¨ In	statistics,	mean	reversion	is	the	term	used	to	describe	the	
phenomenon	that	if	you	get	an	extreme	value	(relative	to	the	
average)	in	a	draw	of	a	variable,	the	second	draw	from	the	
same	distribution	is	likely	to	be	closer	to	the	average.	
¨ In	markets	and	in	investing,	mean	reversion	has	not	only	
taken	on	a	much	bigger	role	but	has	arguably	had	a	greater	
impact	than	in	any	other	discipline.	
¤ Jeremy	Siegel's	argument	for	why	"stocks	win	in	the	long	term"	is	
based	upon	his	observation	that	over	a	very	long	time	period	(more	
than	200	years),	stocks	have	earned	higher	returns	than	other	asset	
classes	and	that	there	is	no	20- year	time	period	in	his	history	where	
stocks	have	not	outperformed	the	competition .
¤ Many	“value”	investing	strategies	(buy	low	PE	stocks,	low	PBV	stocks	
etc.)	are	based	upon	the	presumption	of	mean	reversion.
3
The	Counter	to	Mean	Reversion
¨ Just	as	there	are	a	plethora	of	strategies	built	around	mean	
reversion,	there	are	almost	as	many	built	on	the	presumption	
that	it	will	not	happen,	at	least	during	a	specified	time	
horizon.	
¨ Many	momentum-based	strategies,	such	as	buying	stocks	
with	high	relative	strength	(that	have	gone	up	the	most	over	
a	recent	time	period)	or	have	had	the	highest	earnings	
growth	in	the	last	few	years,	are	effectively	strategies	that	are	
betting	against	mean	reversion	in	the	near	term.	
¨ While	it	is	easy	to	be	an	absolutist	on	this	issue,	the	irony	is	
that	not	only	can	both	sides	be	right,	even	though	their	
beliefs	seem	fundamentally	opposed,	but	worse,	both	sides	
can	be	and	often	are	wrong.
4
Forms	of	mean	reversion
¨ In time	series	mean	reversion ,	you	assume	that	the	value	of	a	
variable	reverts	back	to	a	historical	average.	This,	in	a	sense,	is	
what	you	are	using	when	looking	at	the	CAPE	today	at	27.27	(in	
August	2016)	and	argue	that	stocks	are	over	priced	because	the	
average	CAPE	between	1871	and	2016	is	closer	to	16.
¨ In cross	sectional	mean	reversion ,	you	assume	that	the	value	of	a	
variable	reverts	back	to	a	cross	sectional	average.	This	is	the	basis	
for	concluding	that	an	oil	stock	with	a	 PE	ratio	of	30	is	over	priced,	
because	the	average	PE	across	oil	stocks	is	closer	to	15.
¨ At	the	risk	of	over	generalizing,	market	timing	strategies	are	more	
likely	to	be	built	on	time	series	mean	reversion	whereas	stock	
picking	strategies	often	revolve	around	cross	sectional	mean	
reversion.
5
Mean	Reversion:	The	Questions
1. Measurement	Questions
¤ The	Mean	can	be	very	different	depending	not	only	on	the	
time	period	that	you	look	at	but	also	on	how	you	compute	it
¤ On	Reversion,	there	can	be	differences	about	when	it	will	
happen	and	how.
2. Fundamental	Questions
¤ Mean	reversion	is	built	on	the	presumption	that	the	underlying	
process	is	stable	(and	therefore	reverts	back	to	historic	norms)
¤ If	there	is	or	has	been	a	large	structural	change	in	the	underlying	
process,	mean	reversion	will	no	longer	work.
6
The	Causes	for	Structural	Change
¨ With	time	series	mean	reversion,	structural	change	
can	come	from
¤ Aging	of	either	a	company,	a	sector	or	the	entire	market,	
changing	its	characteristics.
¤ Technology	
¤ Investor	preferences
¨ With	cross	sectional	mean	reversion,	structural	
change	can	come
¤ Changes	in	industry	structure
¤ Disruption
7
The	US	Equity	Market
8
The	2008	Wake	Up	Call
1. Globalization	is	here	to	stay and	while	it	has	brought	pluses,	it	has	already	
brought	some	minuses.	As	I	noted	in	my	post	on	country	risk,	no	investor	or	
company	can	afford	to	stay	localized	any	more,	since	not	only	do	market	crisis	in	
one	country	quickly	become	global	epidemics,	but	a	company	that	depends	on	
just	its	domestic	market	for	operations	(revenues	and	production)	is	now	more	
the	exception	than	the	rule.	
2. Financial	service	firms	were	at	the	center	of	the	crisis ,	has	had	long	term	
consequences.	Not	only	has	it	led	to	a	loss	of	faith	in	banks	as	well -regulated	
entities,	run	by	sensible	(and	risk	averse)	people,	but	it	has	increased	the	role	of	
central	bankers	in	economies,	with	perverse	consequences.	In	their	zeal	to	be	
saviors	of	the	economy,	central	bankers	(in	my	view)	have	contributed	to	an	
environment	of	low	economic	growth	and	higher	risk	premiums.	
3. Low	economic	growth	and	low	inflation	has	resulted	in	interest	rates	lower	than	
they	have	been	historically in	most	currencies	and	negative	interest	rates	in	
some.	I	know	that	there	are	many	who	believe	that	I	am	over	reacting	and	that	
it	only	a	question	of	time	before	we	revert	back	to	more	normal	interest	rates,	
higher	economic	growth	and	typical	inflation	but	I	am	not	convinced.
9
The	Statistical	Basis	for	Mean	Reversion	–
The	CAPE	Illustration
10
A	More	Useful	Picture?
11
More	Statistics:	Correlation
12
Statistics	Doubling	Down:	Regressions
Expected annualized return in next 10 years 
= 16.24% - 0.0044 (27.27) = 4.30%
13
From	Statistics	to	Investing:	Market	Timing	
Choices
¨ Timing	threshold:	If	you	decide	that	you	will	time	markets	
using	a	metric,	you	have	to	follow	through	with	specifics.	
¨ Asset	class	alternatives:	If	you	decide	to	move	money	out	of	
stocks,	you	have	to	also	specify	where	the	money	will	go	and	
you	have	four	choices.
¨ Holding	period:	You	will	have	to	specify	how	long	you	plan	to	
stay	with	the	"market	timed"	allocation	mix.
¨ Allocation	Constraints	(if	any):	The	allocation	that	you	have	
for	an	asset	class	can	be	floored	at	zero,	if	you	are	a	long	only	
investor,	but	can	be	negative,	if	you	are	willing	to	go	short.	
The	cap	on	what	you	can	allocate	to	an	asset	class	is	100%,	if	
you	cannot	or	choose	not	to	borrow	money,	but	can	be	
greater	than	100%,	if	you	can.
14
Market	Timing	Results
15
General	Conclusions
1. Time	Period:	The	CAPE	delivers	a	positive	market	timing	payoff	in	the	first	half	
of	the	entire	time	period	(from	1917	to	1966)	and	a	negative	one	in	the	second	
half	(1967-2016).	
2. Choice	of	time	period	for	median :	Using	the	lifetime	median	delivers	better	
results	during	the	"good"	period	(1917 -1966)	but	worse	results	during	the	"bad"	
period	(1967-2016).	Using	a	shorter	time	periods	for	the	median	reduces	the	
outperformance	in	the	first	half	of	the	analysis	period	but	improves	it	in	the	
second	half.
3. Buy	and	Sell:	The	CAPE's	timing	payoff	is	greater	when	it	is	used	as	a	buying	
metric	than	as	a	selling	metric.	In	fact,	you	make	a	positive	payoff	from	using	a	
low	CAPE	as	a	buying	indicator	over	the	entire	period	but	using	it	is	a	signal	of	
over	priced	markets	costs	you	money	in	both	time	period.
4. Activity:	Increasing	the	degree	to	which	you	tilt	towards	or	away	from	stocks,	in	
reaction	to	the	CAPE,	just	magnifies	the	return	difference,	positive	or	negative.	
Thus,	in	the	first	half	of	the	century	(1917 -1966),	changing	your	equity	exposure	
more	increases	the	payoff	to	market	timing.	In	the	second	half,	it	makes	the	
negative	payoff	worse.
16
The	Bottom	Line
¨ Long	Periods	of	Data:	are	a	blessing	and	a	curse,	a	
blessing	because	we	can	extract	more	information	
from	them	and	a	curse	because	that	information	
may	no	longer	be	relevant.
¨ Statistics	on	call:	Since	we	can	statistics	painlessly,	
using	built	in	tools,	both	academics	and	practitioners	
have	increasingly	turned	to	using	statistical	evidence	
as	proof	that	you	can	beat	markets.	Correlation	is	
not	cash	in	the	bank.	Converting	statistical	
significance	to	investment	returns	is	far	more	
difficult	than	it	looks.
