Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/eqnotes/webcasts/EmployeeOptions/cisco10K.pdf

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
FORM 10-K
(Annual Report)
Filed 09/12/12 for the Period Ending 07/28/12
  
  
Address
170 WEST TASMAN DR
SAN JOSE, CA 95134-1706
Telephone
4085264000
CIK
0000858877
Symbol
CSCO
SIC Code
3576 - Computer Communications Equipment
Industry
Communications Equipment
Sector
Technology
Fiscal Year
07/28
http://www.edgar-online.com
© Copyright 2012, EDGAR Online, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Distribution and use of this document restricted under EDGAR Online, Inc. Terms of Use.
Table of Contents  
      
UNITED STATES  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
   
FORM 10-K  
(Mark one)  
For the fiscal year ended July 28, 2012  
or  
   
For the transition period from             to              
Commission file number 0-18225  
   
CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.  
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its chart er)  
   
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well- known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of th e Securities Act.        Yes     /box2   No  
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not req uired to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Sec tion 15(d) of the Act.     /box2   Yes        No  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) h as filed all reports required to be filed by Sectio n 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 193 4 during the 
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period tha t the registrant was required to file such reports) , and (2) has been subject to such filing requireme nts for the past 90 days.     
   Yes     /box2   No  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has s ubmitted electronically and posted on its corporate  Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File requ ired to be 
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regula tion S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the prec eding 12 months (or for such shorter period that th e registrant was 
required to submit and post such files).        Yes     /box2   No  
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is no t contained herein, and will not be contained to th e best of 
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Par t III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Fo rm 10-K.     
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a no n-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company . See definitions of 
“large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exch ange Act).     /box2   Yes        No  
Aggregate market value of registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based up on the closing price of a share of the registrant’s common stock on 
January 27, 2012 as reported by the NASDAQ Global S elect Market on that date: $105,101,493,544  
Number of shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of September 5, 2012: 5,290,061,557  
   
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 15, 2012, are incor porated by reference 
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K wh ere indicated.  
         
  
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
/box2 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  
California   77 -0059951 
(State or other jurisdiction of  
incorporation or organization)    
(IRS Employer  
Identification No.)  
170 West Tasman Drive  
San Jose, California    95134 -1706 
(Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code) 
Title of Each Class:   Name of Each Exchange on which Registered 
Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share   The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 
  
Large accelerated filer       Accelerated filer   /box2 
Non -accelerated filer   * (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)    Smaller reporting company   /box2
Table of Contents  
PART I  
   
Item 1.    Business       1    
   General       1    
   Strategy and Focus Areas       2    
   Products and Services       5    
   Customers and Markets       8    
   Sales Overview       9    
   Financing Arrangements       10    
   Product Backlog       10    
   Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances       11    
   Competition       12    
   Research and Development       13    
   Manufacturing       13    
   Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing       14    
   Employees       15    
   Executive Officers of the Registrant       15    
Item 1A.    Risk Factors       17    
Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments       35    
Item 2.    Properties       35    
Item 3.    Legal Proceedings       36    
Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures       36    
PART II    
Item 5.    Market for Registrant ’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and I ssuer Purchases of Equity Securities       37    
Item 6.    Selected Financial Data       39    
Item 7.    Management ’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition an d Results of Operations       40    
Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Mark et Risk       75    
Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       78    
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Ac counting and Financial Disclosure       132    
Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures       132    
Item 9B.    Other Information       133    
PART III     
Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governa nce       133    
Item 11.    Executive Compensation       133    
Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and  Management and Related Stockholder Matters       134    
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and  Director Independence       134    
Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services       134    
PART IV    
Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules       134    
   Signatures       136
Table of Contents  
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the “Man agement’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” contains forward- looking 
statements regarding future events and our future r esults that are subject to the safe harbors created  under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) and the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). All statements other than statemen ts of historical facts are statements that could be  deemed forward-looking statements. These 
statements are based on current expectations, estim ates, forecasts, and projections about the industri es in which we operate and the beliefs and assumpti ons of our management. 
Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes, ” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “endeavors,” “ strives,” “may,” 
variations of such words, and similar expressions a re intended to identify such forward-looking statem ents. In addition, any statements that refer to pro jections of our future 
financial performance, our anticipated growth and t rends in our businesses, and other characterization s of future events or circumstances are forward -looking statements. 
Readers are cautioned that these forward -looking statements are only predictions and are su bject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that  are difficult to predict, including 
those identified below, under “Item 1A. Risk Factor s,” and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results  may differ materially and adversely from those exp ressed in any forward-
looking statements. We undertake no obligation to r evise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.  
PART I  
   
General  
We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (“IP”) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (“ IT”) industry and 
provide services associated with these products and  their use. We provide a broad line of products for  transporting data, voice, and video within buildin gs, across campuses, and 
around the world. Our products are designed to tran sform how people connect, communicate, and collabor ate. Our products are installed at enterprise busin esses, public 
institutions, telecommunications companies and othe r service providers, commercial businesses, and per sonal residences.  
We conduct our business globally and manage our bus iness by geography. As we strive for faster decisio n making with greater accountability and alignment to support our 
emerging countries and our five foundational priori ties, as discussed later, beginning in fiscal 2012,  we organized our business into the following three  geographic segments: The 
Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (“APJC”). In fiscal 2011, we organized our business into four segm ents: United 
States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Marke ts, and Asia Pacific Markets. The Emerging Markets segment then consisted of Eastern Europe, Latin Ame rica, the 
Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwe alth of Independent States. As a result of the geog raphic segment change in fiscal 2012, countries wit hin the former 
Emerging Markets segment were consolidated into eit her the EMEA segment or the Americas segment, depen ding on their respective geographic locations. We h ave reclassified 
the geographic segment data for prior years to conf orm to the current year’s presentation. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, se e Note 16 to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements.  
We were incorporated in California in December 1984 , and our headquarters are in San Jose, California.  The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 Wes t Tasman Drive, San 
Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone numb er at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Re lations section of 
our website, we make available the following filing s as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Secur ities and Exchange 
Commission (“SEC”): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on  Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports file d or 
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the  Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. The information posted on our website is  not incorporated into 
this report.  
   
1  
Item 1. Business
Table of Contents  
As part of our business focus on the network as the  platform for all forms of communications and IT, o ur products and services are designed to help our c ustomers use 
technology to address their business imperatives an d opportunities—improving productivity and user exp erience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage—and to 
help them connect more effectively with their key s takeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We del iver networking 
products and solutions designed to simplify and sec ure customers’ network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that leverage the netwo rk to most effectively 
address market transitions and customer requirement s—including in recent periods, virtualization, clou d, collaboration, and video. We believe that integr ating multiple network 
services into and across our products helps our cus tomers reduce their operational complexity, increas e their agility and reduce their total cost of netw ork ownership. As a result 
of the re-categorization of our product offerings i n fiscal 2012, our products and technologies are gr ouped into the following categories: Switching, Nex t-Generation Network 
(“NGN”) Routing, Collaboration, Service Provider Video, Wireless, Security, Data Center, and Other Pro ducts. In fiscal 2011, our product categories consi sted of Routing, 
Switching, New Products, and Other Products.  
Network architectures, built on core routing and sw itching technologies, are evolving to accommodate t he demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and 
new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have e merged as the network has become the platform for p rovisioning, 
integrating and delivering an ever-increasing array  of IT-based products and services.  
Strategy and Focus Areas  
We began in fiscal 2011, and had largely completed by the end of fiscal 2012, realigning our sales, se rvices and engineering organizations in order to si mplify our operating 
model, drive faster innovation, and focus on our fi ve foundational priorities:  
   
   
   
   
   
We believe that focusing on these priorities best p ositions us to continue to expand our share of our customers’ information technology spending.  
We continue to undergo product transitions in our c ore business, including the introduction of next-ge neration products with higher price performance and  architectural 
advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our compet itors. We believe that many of these product transi tions are gaining 
momentum based on the strong year-over-year product  revenue growth across these next-generation produc t families. We believe that our strategy and our ab ility to innovate 
and execute may enable us to improve our relative c ompetitive position in many of our product areas ev en in uncertain or difficult business conditions an d, therefore, may 
continue to provide us with long-term growth opport unities. However, we believe that these newly intro duced products may continue to negatively impact pr oduct gross 
margins, which we are currently striving to address  through various initiatives including value engine ering, effective supply chain management, and deliv ering greater customer 
value through offers that include hardware, softwar e, and services.  
We continue to seek to capitalize on market transit ions. Market transitions relating to the network ar e becoming, in our view, more significant as intell igent networks have 
moved from being a mere cost center issue—that is, where the focus is on reducing network operating co sts and increasing network-related productivity—to becoming, 
additionally and increasingly, a platform for impro ved revenue generation as well as driving business agility and strategy execution.  
   
2  
  •   Leadership in our core business (routing, switching , and associated services) which includes comprehen sive security and mobility solutions  
  •   Collaboration  
  •   Data center virtualization and cloud  
  •   Video  
  •   Architectures for business transformation
Table of Contents  
Market transitions for which we are primarily focus ed include those related to the increased role of v irtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, netw orked mobility 
technologies and the transition from Internet Proto col Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For e xample, a market in which a significant market tran sition is under way is the 
enterprise data center market, where a transition t o virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. T here is a continued growing awareness that intellig ent networks are becoming 
the platform for productivity improvement and globa l competitiveness. We believe that disruption in th e enterprise data center market is accelerating, du e to changing 
technology trends such as the increasing adoption o f virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based I T resource deployments 
and business models. These key terms are defined as  follows:  
   
   
This virtualization and cloud-driven market transit ion in the enterprise data center market is being b rought about through the convergence of networking,  computing, storage, 
and software technologies. We are seeking to take a dvantage of this market transition through, among o ther things, our Cisco Unified Computing System pla tform and Cisco 
Nexus product families, which are designed to integ rate the previously siloed technologies in the ente rprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to 
capitalize on this market transition through the de velopment of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable custome rs to develop and 
deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, includin g software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) and other-as-a-service (“XaaS”) solutions.  
The competitive landscape in the enterprise data ce nter market is changing. Very large, well-financed,  and aggressive competitors are each bringing their  own new class of 
products to address this new market. We expect this  competitive market trend to continue. With respect  to this market, we believe the network will be the  intersection of 
innovation through an open ecosystem and standards.  We expect to see acquisitions, further industry co nsolidation, and new alliances among companies as t hey seek to serve the 
enterprise data center market. As we enter this nex t market phase, we expect that we will strengthen c ertain strategic alliances, compete more with certa in strategic alliances and 
partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitor s in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.  
We believe that the architectural approach that we have undertaken in the enterprise data center marke t is adaptable to other markets. An example of a ma rket where we aim to 
apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP  traffic on handheld devices is driving the need fo r more robust architectures, equipment and services  in order to 
accommodate not only an increasing number of worldw ide mobile device users, but also increased user de mand for broadband-quality business network and con sumer web 
applications to be delivered on such devices. A key  term in this mobility-centered market transition i s “BYOD,” an acronym for “bring your own device,” which, in the context 
of IT usage in companies, universities, and other o rganizations, refers to the growing trend of employ ees, customers, students and others associated with  such entities to bring 
and use their own laptop computers, smartphones, ta blets, or other mobile devices for their work or pa rticipation, instead of using equipment provided by  the organization.  
   
3  
  
•   Virtualization: Refers to the process of creating a virtual, or non physical, version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device, network or an operating 
system, in such a way that human users as well as o ther devices and resources are able to interact wit h the virtual resource as if it were an actual phys ical resource. 
For example, one type of virtualization is server o r data center virtualization, which consists of agg regating the current siloed data center resources i nto unified, 
shared resource pools that can be dynamically deliv ered to applications on demand, thus enabling the a bility to move content and applications between dev ices and 
the network.  
  
•   The cloud: Refers to an information technology hosting and del ivery system in which resources, such as servers or  software applications, are no longer tethered to 
a user’s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user “on demand” as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or wi th 
multiple other users simultaneously.
Table of Contents  
With regard to this market transition, to help such  organizations meet the demands of increasing BYOD usage, our product development strategy involves a comprehensive 
architectural approach that will allow for, among o ther things, a unified security policy across the w hole organization; a simplified operations and netw ork management structure 
that understands application performance from a use r’s perspective, enhances troubleshooting capability and lowers network operating costs; and an uncomp romised user 
experience over the organization’s entire wireless and wired network that embraces use of any kind of device. Our mobility-related products and solutions  reflect this 
architectural-based approach.  
Other market transitions for which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the c onvergence of video, collaboration, and networked m obility technologies, 
which we believe will drive productivity and growth  in network loads and appear to be evolving even mo re quickly and more significantly than we had previ ously anticipated. 
Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of produ ct offerings that have incorporated video, collabor ation, and networked mobility technologies, as cust omers evolve their 
communications and business models. More generally,  we are focused on simplifying and expanding the cr eation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video s olutions for 
businesses and consumers.  
Another market transition on which we are focusing is the move toward more programmable, flexible and virtual networks. This move to network programmabil ity encompasses 
technologies such as software-defined-networking an d is focused on moving from a hardware-centric appr oach for networking to a virtualized network enviro nment that is 
designed to enable flexible, application-driven cus tomization of network infrastructures. We believe t he successful products and solutions in this market  will combine 
application-specific-integrated-circuits (“ASICs”) with hardware and software elements together to mee t customers’ total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability and 
experience requirements. In our view, there is no s ingle architecture that supports all customer requi rements in this area. Our strategy is targeted to a ddress a broad range of 
specific customer use cases.  
Recently, we announced an additional set of network  programmability capabilities with the announcement  of the Cisco Open Network Environment, or Cisco ON E, including 
overlay network technology, application programming  interfaces (“APIs”) and network-operation tools called agents and controllers. In our view, this evol ution is in its very 
early stages and presents an opportunity for Cisco.  We intend to continue to drive internal innovation , partner for co-development and make strategic inv estments to lead this 
evolution.  
For a discussion of the risks associated with our s trategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the developme nt of new products and 
enhancements to existing products, and if we fail t o predict and respond to emerging technological tre nds and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share 
may suffer.” For information regarding sales of our  major products and services, see Note 16 to the Co nsolidated Financial Statements.  
   
4
Table of Contents  
Products and Services  
Our current offerings fall into several categories:   
Switching  
Switching is an integral networking technology used  in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Swi tches are used within buildings in local-area netwo rks (“LANs”) and 
across great distances in wide-area networks (“WANs ”). Our switching products offer many forms of conn ectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, acc ess points, and 
servers and also function as aggregators on LANs an d WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely  used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre 
Channel over Ethernet (“FCoE”), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multip rotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are d esigned to support an integrated set 
of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple net working functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same 
functions. Key product platforms within our Switchi ng product category, in which we also include stora ge products, are as follows:  
   
Fixed-configuration switches are designed to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized bu sinesses. Our fixed-configuration switches are desi gned to provide a 
foundation for converged data, voice, and video ser vices. They range from small, standalone switches t o stackable models that function as a single, scala ble switching unit.  
Modular switches are typically utilized by enterpri se and service provider customers. These products o ffer flexibility and scalability for these customer s, which due to their 
large-scale network demands often need to deploy nu merous, concurrent intelligent networking services without degrading overall performance.  
Fixed-configuration and modular switches also inclu de products such as optics modules which are shared  across multiple product platforms.  
During fiscal 2012, we introduced what we believe t o be the industry’s most advanced and versatile portfolio of modular, fixed-configuration, blade, and virtual LAN switches 
for campus, branch, and data center deployments. In dividually, these switches are designed to offer th e performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from 
traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and n etwork cores to highly virtualized and converged co rporate data centers. Working together, these switc hes are, in our view, the 
building blocks of an integrated network that deliv ers scalable and intelligent services protecting, o ptimizing, and growing as a customer’s business needs evolve. We also 
recently introduced a versatile and broad approach to network programmability, called Cisco ONE, aimed  at helping customers drive the next wave of busine ss innovation 
through trends such as cloud, mobility, social netw orking, and video. Cisco ONE is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of netwo rk infrastructures to 
help businesses realize objectives such as increase d service velocity, resource optimization, and fast er monetization of new services.  
   
5  
Fixed -Configuration Switches     Modular Switches     Storage  
Cisco Catalyst Series:    Cisco Catalyst Series:    MDS Series: 
•    Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series     •    Cisco Catalyst 4500 Series     •    MDS 9000  
•    Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series     •    Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series     
•    Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series        
Cisco Nexus Series:    Cisco Nexus Series:    
•    Cisco Nexus 2000 Series     •    Cisco Nexus 7000 Series     
•    Cisco Nexus 3000 Series        
•    Cisco Nexus 5000 Series
Table of Contents  
NGN Routing  
Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and privat e IP networks for mobile, data, voice, and video ap plications. Our NGN 
Routing products are designed to enhance the intell igence, security, reliability, scalability, and lev el of performance in the transmission of informatio n and media-rich 
applications. We offer a broad range of routers, fr om core network infrastructure and mobile Internet network for service providers and enterprises to ac cess routers for branch 
offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home . Key product areas within our NGN Routing category  are as follows:  
   
During fiscal 2012, we experienced strong adoption of our latest edge and core routing platforms, Cisc o ASR 9000 and Cisco CRS-3, respectively. We contin ue to provide 
further enhancements to our NGN Routing portfolio w ith the aim of supporting the next-generation Inter net and enabling compelling new experiences for con sumers, new 
revenue opportunities for service providers, and ne w ways to collaborate in the workplace.  
Service Provider Video  
Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content orig inators to deliver entertainment, information, and 
communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. Key product areas within our Serv ice Provider Video category are as follows:  
Set-Top Boxes  
Cable Modem CPE (Data, EMTA, and Gateways)  
Cable Modem Termination Systems Products  
Videoscape Software Products  
Headend Equipment (Encoders, Decoders, and Transcod ers)  
On July 30, 2012, we acquired NDS Group Limited (“N DS”), a leading provider of video content security and software solutions designed to enable users to intuitively view, 
search and navigate digital content. NDS has a stro ng recurring revenue stream and we expect the acqui sition of NDS to complement and accelerate the deli very of Cisco 
Videoscape, Cisco’s comprehensive platform that enables service providers and media companies to deliv er next-generation entertainment experiences. With the NDS 
acquisition, we aim to broaden our opportunities in  the service provider market and to expand our reac h into emerging markets such as China and India, co untries where NDS 
has an established customer presence.  
   
6  
High -End Routers     Midrange and Low -End Routers     Other NGN Routing  
Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (“ASR”): 
   Cisco Integrated Services Routers ( “ISR ”):    
Optical Networking Products  
Other Routing Products  
•    Cisco ASR 901/903     •    Cisco ISR 800     
•    Cisco ASR 1000     •    Cisco ISR 1900     
•    Cisco ASR 5000     •    Cisco ISR 2900     
•    Cisco ASR 9000     •    Cisco ISR 3900     
Cisco Carrier Routing Systems ( “CRS ”):       
•    Cisco CRS -1        
•    Cisco CRS -3        
Cisco 7600 Series Routers       
  •   IP set -top boxes (both High -Definition ( “HD ”) and Standard Definition ( “SD ”))  
  •   Digital cable set -top boxes (both HD and SD)
Table of Contents  
Collaboration  
Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video , data and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoin ts including mobile 
phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients. Key products areas within our Collaboration category are as follows:  
Unified Communications:  
Cisco TelePresence Systems  
During fiscal 2012, we continued the evolution of o ur Collaboration portfolio. We expanded the WebEx f amily of products to include WebEx Social, a cloud- based enterprise 
social platform; WebEx Meetings, a meeting place wi th file and social networking capabilities; and Web Ex TelePresence, a cloud-based offering provided as  a service. We 
introduced new additions to the Cisco TelePresence portfolio including the MX300 system, designed to e xtend Cisco TelePresence to more offices and meetin g spaces; and the 
TX9000, a new three-screen immersive platform that is designed to deliver the highest quality video ex perience and industry-leading collaboration capabil ities with advanced 
content sharing and interactive features.  
Security  
Security is a significant business concern and we b elieve it is a top investment priority for our cust omers. Security threats continue to escalate, resul ting in the loss of revenue, 
intellectual property, and reputation. Cisco securi ty solutions deliver identity, network and content security solutions designed to enable customers to reduce the impact of threats 
and realize the benefits of a mobile, collaborative , and cloud-enabled business. Our products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remot e access, virtual private 
networks (“VPNs”), unified clients, network admission control, web gateways, and email gateways. Our A nyConnect Secure Mobility Client solution enables u sers to access 
networks with their mobile device of choice, such a s laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices, whil e allowing organizations to manage the security ris ks of networks. Our 
cloud-based web security service is designed to pro vide real-time threat protection and to prevent malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or m obile users. 
We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counte r both existing and emerging security threats. We p rovide security solutions that are designed to be i ntegrated, timely, 
comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure hol istic security for organizations worldwide.  
During fiscal 2012, we introduced the Cisco ASA 550 0-X Series Midrange Security Appliance, Cisco Secur ity Manager 4.3, the IPS 4500 Series, and Prime Sec urity Manager. 
We are also improving the security of all our produ ct lines by securing the supply chain throughout th e entire product lifecycle, from inception to dispo sal. A strong security 
focus is forefront across our engineering processes  as we implement our products under what we refer t o as the Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle process , an IT-based supply 
chain management process. Specific product security  enhancements currently being designed into our pla tforms include Anchored Secure Boot technology and anti-tamper 
technology to store keys and provide functions to e nhance the overall security of the platform.  
Wireless  
The Cisco Unified Wireless Network aims to harness the intelligence of the network to solve business p roblems, uniting high-performance wireless access a cross campus, 
branch, remote and outdoor environments. Our offeri ngs include wireless access points (including the C isco Aironet product family), controllers, antennas , and integrated 
management. Our offerings provide users with simpli fied management and mobile device troubleshooting f eatures which are designed to reduce operational co st and maximize 
flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in custom chipsets to deliver innovative functions such as CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, C lientLink acceleration for 
mobile devices and VideoStream multicast optimizati on technology.  
   
7  
  •   IP phones  
  •   Call center and messaging products  
  •   Unified communications infrastructure products  
  •   Web -based collaborative offerings ( “WebEx ”)
Table of Contents  
Data Center  
Our Data Center product category has been our faste st growing major product category for the past two fiscal years. Cisco Unified Computing System (“UCS”) and Server 
Access Virtualization form the core of the Data Cen ter product category. Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows:  
UCS  
Server Access Virtualization  
The UCS platform unites computing, network, storage  access, and virtualization into a centrally manage d and automated system. During fiscal 2012 we made significant 
expansions to the computing and high-performance vi rtual switching capability of UCS with the introduc tion of seven new server models and a new generatio n of fabric 
interconnects and virtualized interface cards. Thes e innovations are designed to further our strategy of enabling customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads 
with unique application requirements onto a single unified, scalable, centrally managed and automated system. Our strategy has resulted in a portfolio of  standalone and 
converged infrastructure solutions designed to pres erve customer choice, accelerate business initiativ es, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represen t a comprehensive solution 
when collectively deployed.  
Other Products  
Our Other Products category primarily consists of L inksys home networking products, certain emerging t echnologies, and other networking products.  
Service  
In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technic al support services and advanced services.  
Technical support services help ensure that our pro ducts operate efficiently, remain available, and be nefit from the most up-to-date system software that  we have developed. 
These services help customers protect their network  investments and minimize downtime for systems runn ing mission-critical applications. A key example of  this is our Cisco 
Smart Services offering, which leverages the intell igence from Cisco’s over fifty million devices and customer connections to protect and optimize networ k investment for our 
customers and partners.  
Advanced services are services that are part of a c omprehensive program that is designed to provide re sponsive, preventive, and consultative support of o ur technologies for 
specific networking needs. The advanced services pr ogram supports networking devices, applications, so lutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy 
seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and  we believe this strategy, along with our architect ural approach, has the potential to further differe ntiate us from competitors.  
Customers and Markets  
Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and n etworking requirements of our customers. These incl ude the size of the organization, number and types of technology 
systems, geographic location, and the business appl ications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, 
or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal  years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or  more of our net sales. Our customers primarily ope rate in the following 
markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector.  
   
8  
  •   Cisco UCS B -Series Blade Servers  
  •   Cisco UCS C -Series Rack Servers  
  •   Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects
Table of Contents  
Enterprise  
Enterprise businesses are large regional, national,  or global organizations with multiple locations or  branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many 
enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration , and networking needs within a multivendor environ ment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as -a-platform strategy 
to integrate business processes with technology arc hitectures to assist customer growth. We offer serv ice and support packages, financing, and managed ne twork services 
primarily through our service provider partners. We  sell these products through a network of third-par ty application and technology vendors and channel p artners, as well as 
selling directly to these customers.  
Service Providers  
Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mob ile/wireless services to businesses, governments, u tilities, and consumers worldwide. They include reg ional, national, and 
international wireline carriers, as well as Interne t, cable, and wireless providers. We also group med ia, broadcast, and content-providers within our ser vice provider market, as 
the lines in the telecommunications industry contin ue to blur between traditional network-based servic es and content-based and application- based services. Service providers use 
a variety of our routing and switching, optical, se curity, video, mobility, and network management pro ducts, systems, and services for their own networks . In addition, many 
service providers use Cisco data center, virtualiza tion, and collaboration technologies to offer manag ed or Internet-based services to their business cus tomers. Compared with 
other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of the ir networks, which 
requirements are addressed, we believe, by our arch itectural approach.  
Commercial  
Generally, we define commercial businesses as compa nies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, o r midmarket, customers within the commercial market  are served by a 
combination of our direct salesforce and our channe l partners. These customers typically require the l atest advanced technologies that our enterprise cus tomers demand, but with 
less complexity. Small businesses, or companies wit h fewer than 100 employees, require information tec hnologies and communication products that are easy to configure, 
install, and maintain. These smaller companies with in the commercial market are primarily served by ou r channel partners.  
Public Sector  
Public sector entities include federal governments,  state and local governments, as well as educationa l institution customers. Many public sector entitie s have unique IT, 
collaboration, and networking needs within a multiv endor environment. We sell to public sector entitie s through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and 
channel partners, as well as selling directly to th ese customers.  
Sales Overview  
As of the end of fiscal 2012, our worldwide sales a nd marketing departments consisted of 24,507 employ ees, including managers, sales representatives, and  technical support 
personnel. We have field sales offices in 93 countr ies, and we sell our products and services both dir ectly and through a variety of channels with suppor t from our salesforce. A 
substantial portion of our products and services is  sold through our channel partners, and the remaind er is sold through direct sales. Our channel partne rs include systems 
integrators, service providers, other resellers, di stributors, and retail partners.  
Systems integrators and service providers typically  sell directly to end users and often provide syste m installation, technical support, professional ser vices, and other support 
services in addition to network equipment sales. Sy stems integrators also typically integrate our prod ucts into an overall solution. Some service provide rs are also systems 
integrators.  
   
9
Table of Contents  
Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to s ystems integrators, service providers, and other re sellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through 
distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales  through distributors and retail partners as our tw o-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue  from distributors and retail 
partners is recognized based on a sell-through meth od using information provided by them. These distri butors and retail partners are generally given busi ness terms that allow 
them to return a portion of inventory, receive cred its for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.  
For information regarding risks related to our chan nels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in ou r distribution model could 
harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distri bution channel is complex, and excess inventory may  harm our gross 
margins.”  
For information regarding risks relating to our int ernational operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely 
affected by unfavorable economic and market conditi ons and the uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us t o additional 
competition and will likely increase demands on our  service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic c hanges or other factors 
in a specific country or region could harm our oper ating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange  rates that could negatively impact 
our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism ma y disrupt our operations and harm our operating res ults,” among others. 
Our service offerings complement our products throu gh a range of consulting, technical, project, quali ty, and maintenance services, including 24-hour onl ine and telephone 
support through technical assistance centers.  
Financing Arrangements  
We provide financing arrangements for certain quali fied customers to build, maintain, and upgrade thei r networks. We believe customer financing is a comp etitive factor in 
obtaining business, particularly in serving custome rs involved in significant infrastructure projects.  Our financing arrangements include the following:  
Leases:  
Loans  
Financed service contracts  
For additional information regarding these financin g arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Fina ncial Statements.  
Product Backlog  
Our product backlog at July 28, 2012, the last day of our 2012 fiscal year, was approximately $5.0 bil lion, compared with product backlog of approximatel y $4.5 billion at 
July 30, 2011, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year . The product backlog includes orders confirmed for  products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to  customers with 
approved credit status. Because of the generally sh ort cycle between order and shipment and occasional  customer changes in delivery schedules or cancella tion of orders (which 
are made without significant penalty), we do not be lieve that our product backlog, as of any particula r date, is necessarily indicative of actual net pro duct sales for any future 
period.  
   
10  
  •   Sales -type  
  •   Direct financing  
  •   Operating
Table of Contents  
Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances  
The markets in which we compete require a wide vari ety of technologies, products, and capabilities. Th e combination of technological complexity and rapid  change within our 
markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden 
the range of products and services we deliver to cu stomers in target markets through acquisitions, inv estments, and alliances. We employ the following st rategies to address the 
need for new or enhanced networking and communicati ons products and services:  
   
   
   
   
Acquisitions  
We have acquired many companies, and we expect to m ake future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions o f high-technology companies are inherently risky, e specially if the 
acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assu rance can be given that our previous or future acqu isitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our 
financial condition or operating results. Prior acq uisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes , from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an 
inability to do so. The risks associated with acqui sitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We have made and expect to 
continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt ou r operations and harm our operating results.”  
Investments in Privately Held Companies  
We make investments in privately held companies tha t develop technology or provide services that are c omplementary to our products or that provide strate gic value. The risks 
associated with these investments are more fully di scussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations  in the market values of 
our portfolio investments and in interest rates; im pairment of our investments could harm our earnings .”  
Strategic Alliances  
We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry a dvancement and acceleration of new markets. The obj ectives and goals of 
a strategic alliance can include one or more of the  following: technology exchange, product developmen t, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creatio n. Currently, we have 
strategic alliances with the following companies or  subsidiaries thereof:  
Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix S ystems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Int el Corporation; International Business Machines Cor poration; Italtel 
SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nokia Siemens Netw orks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Cor poration; Tata 
Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC; VMware , Inc.; Wipro Limited; Xerox Corporation; and other s.  
Companies with which we have strategic alliances in  some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks asso ciated with our 
strategic alliances are more fully discussed in “It em 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor ent itled “If we do not successfully manage our strateg ic alliances, we may not 
realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or dela ys in product development.”  
   
11  
  •   Developing new technologies and products internally   
  •   Acquiring all or parts of other companies  
  •   Entering into joint -development efforts with other companies  
  •   Reselling other companies ’ products
Table of Contents  
Competition  
We compete in the networking and communications equ ipment markets, providing products and services for  transporting data, voice, and video traffic across  intranets, extranets, 
and the Internet. These markets are characterized b y rapid change, converging technologies, and a migr ation to networking and communications solutions th at offer relative 
advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We comp ete with numerous vendors in each product category.  The overall number 
of our competitors providing niche product solution s may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activi ty in our new product 
markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions . In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from 
competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.  
Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Arista Netw orks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc. ; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.;  Check Point 
Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; D ell Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone  Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc. ; Fortinet, Inc.; 
Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., L td.; International Business Machines Corporation; J uniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks , Inc.; 
Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. (acquired by Google, Inc. in May 2012); Motoro la Solutions, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Palo Alto Networ ks, Inc.; 
Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Syman tec Corporation; among others.  
Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused i n a specific product area. Barriers to entry are re latively low, and new 
ventures to create products that do or could compet e with our products are regularly formed. In additi on, some of our competitors may have greater resour ces, including 
technical and engineering resources, than we do. As  we expand into new markets, we will face competiti on not only from our existing competitors but also from other 
competitors, including existing companies with stro ng technological, marketing, and sales positions in  those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and 
distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be co mpetitors in other areas, and in our view this tren d may increase. For 
example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a  fundamental transformation arising from the conver gence of technologies, including computing, network ing, storage, and 
software, that previously were siloed. Due to sever al factors, including the availability of highly sc alable and general purpose microprocessors, applica tion-specific integrated 
circuits offering advanced services, standards-base d protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, th e convergence of technologies within the enterprise  data center is spanning 
multiple, previously independent, technology segmen ts. Also, some of our current and potential competi tors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or 
announced new strategic alliances, designed to posi tion them to provide end-to-end technology solution s for the enterprise data center. As a result of al l of these developments, 
we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, includ ing competition from entities that are among our lo ng-term strategic 
alliance partners. Companies that are strategic all iance partners in some areas of our business may ac quire or form alliances with our competitors, there by reducing their business 
with us.  
The principal competitive factors in the markets in  which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
12  
  •   The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services  
  •   Product performance  
  •   Price  
  •   The ability to introduce new products, including pr oducts with price -performance advantages  
  •   The ability to reduce production costs  
  •   The ability to provide value -added features such as security, reliability, and i nvestment protection  
  •   Conformance to standards
Table of Contents  
   
   
We also face competition from customers to which we  license or supply technology and suppliers from wh ich we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires 
interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any i nability to effectively manage these complicated re lationships with 
customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partne rs could have a material adverse effect on our busi ness, operating results, and financial condition, a nd accordingly affect our 
chances of success.  
Research and Development  
We regularly seek to introduce new products and fea tures to address the requirements of our markets. W e allocate our research and development budget amon g our product 
categories, which consist of switching, NGN routing , collaboration, service provider video, wireless, security, data center, and other product technologi es, for this purpose. Our 
research and development expenditures were $5.5 bil lion, $5.8 billion, and $5.3 billion in fiscal 2012 , 2011, and 2010, respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to 
all product areas, with specific areas of focus bei ng identified from time to time. Recent areas of fo cus are tied to our foundational priorities and inc lude, but are not limited to, 
our core routing and switching products and the Cis co Unified Computing System and other products rela ted to the data center. Our expenditures for resear ch and development 
costs were expensed as incurred.  
The industry in which we compete is subject to rapi d technological developments, evolving standards, c hanges in customer requirements, and new product in troductions and 
enhancements. As a result, our success depends in p art upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timel y basis, to continue to enhance our existing produc ts and to develop and 
introduce new products that improve performance and  reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these o bjectives, our management and engineering personnel  work with 
customers to identify and respond to customer needs , as well as with other innovators of internetworki ng products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also 
expect to continue to make acquisitions and investm ents, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developi ng products that meet 
key industry standards and to support important pro tocol standards as they emerge, such as IP Version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we w ill be able to 
successfully develop products to address new custom er requirements and technological changes or that t hose products will achieve market acceptance.  
Manufacturing  
We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our ma nufacturing needs. During fiscal 2012, we completed  the sale of our manufacturing operations relating to set-top boxes to a 
contract manufacturer located in Juarez, Mexico, in  furtherance of our strategic objective to simplify  our operating model. We presently use a variety of  independent third-party 
companies to provide services related to printed-ci rcuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repa ir, and product assembly. Proprietary software on e lectronically 
programmable memory chips is used to configure prod ucts that meet customer requirements and to maintai n quality control and security. The manufacturing p rocess enables us 
to configure the hardware and software in unique co mbinations to meet a wide variety of individual cus tomer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing 
equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as compre hensive inspection, testing, and statistical proces s controls, which are designed to help ensure the q uality and reliability of 
our products. The manufacturing processes and proce dures are generally certified to International Orga nization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003  standards.  
Our arrangements with contract manufacturers genera lly provide for quality, cost, and delivery require ments, as well as manufacturing process terms, such  as continuity of 
supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding  capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our int ellectual property. We 
have not entered into any significant long-term con tracts with any manufacturing service provider.  
   
13  
  •   Market presence  
  •   The ability to provide financing  
  •   Disruptive technology shifts and new business model s
Table of Contents  
We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These ar rangements generally do not commit us to purchase a ny particular 
amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts cov ered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering  discrete periods of time, defined as less than one  year.  
Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing  
We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary r ights in our technology and products through the us e of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade sec ret laws. We have a 
program to file applications for and obtain patents , copyrights, and trademarks in the United States a nd in selected foreign countries where we believe f iling for such protection 
is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosu re policies and through the use of appropriate conf identiality agreements. 
We have obtained a substantial number of patents an d trademarks in the United States and in other coun tries. There can be no assurance, however, that the  rights obtained can be 
successfully enforced against infringing products i n every jurisdiction. Although we believe the prote ction afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademar ks, and trade secrets has 
value, the rapidly changing technology in the netwo rking industry and uncertainties in the legal proce ss make our future success dependent primarily on t he innovative skills, 
technological expertise, and management abilities o f our employees rather than on the protection affor ded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secr et laws.  
Many of our products are designed to include softwa re or other intellectual property licensed from thi rd parties. While it may be necessary in the future  to seek or renew licenses 
relating t
