Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/cfovhds/postclass/session1soln.pdf

Session	  1:	  Post	  class	  test	  (solutions)	  
1. F.	  	  All	  of	  the	  listed	  are	  corporate	  finance	  decisions,	  since	  they	  all	  
require	  financial	  resources.	  The	  one	  that	  comes	  closest	  to	  not	  making	  
it	  is	  the	  accounting	  reevaluation	  because	  it	  really	  is	  cosmetic.	  The	  only	  
reason	  I	  include	  it	  is	  because	  you	  have	  to	  pay	  the	  accountants	  to	  do	  
this	  cosmetic	  restatement.	  
2. c.	  That	  the	  firm	  is	  funded	  with	  primarily	  equity	  and	  pays	  little	  out	  
to	  its	  stockholders.	  If	  you	  are	  a	  firm	  that	  derives	  your	  value	  from	  
growth	  assets,	  you	  cannot	  afford	  debt	  (since	  you	  don’t	  have	  much	  in	  
existing	  assets	  &	  cash	  flows)	  and	  you	  need	  all	  your	  cash	  to	  go	  back	  
into	  the	  firm	  to	  generate	  future	  growth	  (and	  thus	  cannot	  return	  cash	  
to	  stockholders).	  
3. e.	  Firms	  should	  take	  investments	  that	  earn	  returns	  greater	  than	  
the	  risk	  adjusted	  hurdle	  rate.	  It	  is	  not	  enough	  that	  the	  investments	  
are	  profitable	  &	  increase	  growth	  or	  that	  they	  earn	  more	  than	  the	  risk	  
free	  rate.	  The	  projects	  earning	  the	  highest	  returns	  may	  not	  be	  good	  
enough,	  if	  they	  are	  very	  risky.	  
4. e.	  Debt	  in	  the	  same	  currency	  that	  your	  cash	  flows	  are	  in.	  Using	  the	  
cheapest	  debt,	  the	  longest	  term	  debt	  or	  the	  shortest	  term	  debt	  may	  
not	  make	  sense	  if	  the	  debt	  is	  not	  matched	  	  up	  to	  the	  cash	  flows	  on	  the	  
assets.	  Mismatching	  debt	  to	  assets	  increases	  default	  risk.	  
5. c.	  Firms	  that	  have	  high	  earnings	  and	  low	  growth	  potential	  will	  return	  
more	  cash	  to	  stockholders.	  It	  is	  a	  combination	  of	  having	  lots	  of	  
earnings	  (cash	  flows)	  and	  not	  that	  much	  to	  invest	  those	  cash	  flows	  in	  
that	  creates	  the	  opportunity	  to	  return	  more	  cash.
