Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/FoundationsOnline/postclass/session11test.pdf

Session	11:	Post	Class	tests	
1. The	Fisher	Equation	breaks	down	a	nominal	interest	rate	into	expected	
inflation	and	expected	real	interest	rate	components.	Which	of	the	following	
would	be	inconsistent	with	the	Fisher	equation?	
a. Double	digit	nominal	interest	rates	
b. Double	digit	real	interest	rates	
c. Negative	real	interest	rates	
d. Negative	nominal	interest	rates.	
e. None	of	the	above	
2. You	are	checking	the	rates	on	both	the	US	10-year	treasury	bond	and	on	the	
US	10-year	TIPs.	The	former	is	trading	at	an	interest	rate	of	3%	and	the	latter	
has	an	interest	rate	of	1%.	What	is	the	expected	inflation	rate	(approximately)	
for	the	next	10	years?	
a. 1.00%	
b. 2.00%	
c. 3.00%	
d. 4.00%	
e. None	of	the	above	
What	is	the	more	precise	estimate	of	inflation?	
3. Under	which	of	the	following	conditions	does	it	make	the	most	sense	to	buy	a	
ten-year	TIPS	instead	of	a	ten-year	treasury	bond?	
a. When	you	and	everyone	else	expects	inflation	to	be	high	for	the	next	
10	years.	
b. When	you	and	everyone	else	expects	inflation	to	be	lowh	for	the	next	
10	years.	
c. When	you	expect	inflation	to	be	low	and	everyone	else	expects	
inflation	to	be	high	for	the	next	10	years.	
d. When	you	expect	inflation	to	be	high	and	everyone	else	expects	
inflation	to	be	low	for	the	next	10	years.	
e. None	of	the	above	
4. It	is	conventional	wisdom	that	central	banks	set	interest	rates.	Which	of	the	
following	rates	is	set	by	central	banks?	
a. Commercial	paper	interest	rates	
b. US	treasury	bill	interest	rates	
c. Mortgage	rates	
d. Corporate	borrowing	rates	
e. None	of	the	above	
5. The	yield	curve	looks	rates	across	maturities	and	investors	look	at	it	for	cues	
for	the	future.	Which	of	the	following	would	be	viewed	as	a	sign	of	a	rcession	
or	an	economic	slowdown?	
a. Both	short	term	and	long	term	rates	are	low	
b. Both	short	term	and	long	term	rates	are	high		
c. Short	term	rates	are	low,	long	term	rates	are	higher	
d. Short	term	rates	are	high,	long	term	rates	are	lower	
e. None	of	the	above
