Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate3for2020.pdf

DATA UPDATE 3: THE PRICE OF 
RISK
Danger and Opportunity
2
The Trade off on Risk
¨ When investing, risk is a given and if you choose to avoid 
it, at any cost, you will and in the last decade, you have 
borne a staggering cost in terms of returns unearned. 
¨ At the other extreme, seeking out risk for the sake of 
taking risk is more suited to casinos than to financial 
markets, and as in casinos, the end game is almost 
always disastrous. 
¨ The middle ground on risk is to accept that it is part and 
parcel of investing, to try to gauge how exposed you are 
to it and to make sure that your expected return is high 
enough to compensate you for taking that risk.
3
Defining Risk
¨ There are almost as many definitions of risk, as there are 
investors, but I find many of them wanting. 
¤ There is, of course, the definition of risk as uncertainty, a circular play 
on words, since it just replaces one nebulous word (risk) with another . 
¤ There is the definition of risk as encompassing all the bad outcomes 
you can have on an investment, which by making risk into a negative 
and something to be avoided, leads you right into the arms of those 
selling your protection against it (in the form of hedging). 
¤ In finance, we have become so used to measuring risk in statistical 
terms that we have taken to defining risk with these measures, an arid 
and antiseptic view of risk. 
¨ Risk, at least in business, is neither a good nor a bad, but a 
given. It is a combination of danger (the likelihood that bad 
things will happen to you) and opportunity:
4
The Price of Risk
¨ When you invest in fixed income securities (bonds), your 
compensation takes the form of a default spread, i.e., what 
you charge over the riskfree rate to invest in that bond.
¨ When you invest in equities, the payoff to taking risk comes in 
the form of an equity risk premium, i.e., the premium you 
demand over and above the risk free rate for investing in 
equities as an asset class.
¨ The default spread is a function of what investors believe is 
the likelihood that borrowers will fail to make their 
contractually obligated payments, and it will rise and fall with 
the economy. The equity risk premium is a more complex 
number and I think of it as the receptacle for everything in 
the market.
5
The Default Spread in 2019
6
And over time….
7
The US Equity Risk Premium
Using a backward-looking number with a large 
estimation error (see the standard errors in the table 
above) as an expectation for the future cuts against 
the very essence of an equity risk premium as a 
number that should be dynamic and constantly 
changing, as new information comes into markets.
8
A Forward-looking Estimate
9
The ERP’s Path in 2019
10
And over time…
11
A Real Estate Risk Premium
¨ Every risky asset class has a price for risk, i.e., a risk premium, 
though measuring that price can be difficult, when liquidity is 
lacking.
¨ Consider the real estate market, perhaps the biggest asset 
class outside of stocks and bonds. Investors in commercial 
real estate attach prices to properties, based upon their 
expectations of income from the properties and capitalization 
rates. 
¤ Thus, a property with expected income of $10 million and a 
capitalization rate of 8% will be valued at $125 million = $10/.08. 
¤ Since the capitalization rate is effectively a measure of expected return 
on real estate, subtracting out the risk free rate should yield a measure 
of the risk premium in real estate.
Risk Premium for Real Estate = Cap Rate – Risk free rate
12
A Comparative Analysis
13
In conclusion..
¨ The debate about equity risk premiums is not an abstract one, 
since which side of the debate you come down upon is going to 
drive your asset allocation judgments. 
¤ If you are market neutral, like me, you are effectively taking the market 
price of risk, as it is set today, to be right and valuing companies with that 
equity risk premium. 
¤ If you are a bear, you believe that equity risk premiums should be higher, 
either for fundamental reasons or instinct, and you should put less of your 
wealth into stocks than you normally would, given your age, liquidity 
needs and risk aversion. 
¤ If you are a market bull, your story has to be one of declining equity risk 
premiums, perhaps because you think in your own version of mean 
reversion or because of continued economic growth.
¨ If you build in your market views into every valuation that you do, 
your findings will jointly reflect both your market views and your 
views of the company.
