Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ViralUpdate4.pdf

A VIRAL MARKET MELTDOWN IV: 
PREPARING FOR A POST-VIRUS 
WORLD!
Aswath Damodaran
2
Another week… More pain!
¨ At the end of each of the weeks leading into the last one, I 
have done a market update, reflecting the changes that 
occurred in the week not just to market values but to investor 
psyches
¨ Each week, I have hoped that it would be the last one needed 
for this crisis. That hope was dashed last week, as markets 
continued on their downward spiral, and here I am again, 
writing another one. 
¨ In this week's update, I will begin by again first chronicling the 
market damage, across sectors, industries and company 
characteristics, but I will follow up by looking at four different 
investment strategies for those who have the ability and the 
capacity to look past the near term, recognizing that many 
might not have that luxury..
3
The Macro Picture: Equities had a really 
bad week..
4
But Treasuries did not benefit..
5
And Corporate Bonds had their worst 
week yet..
6
Commodities continued to bottom…
7
And Gold and Bitcoin were not havens of 
safety either ..
Aswath Damodaran
7
8
Equity Market Damage: By Sector
9
And the most hurt and least hurt 
industries…
10
By Region
11
Net Debt and Profitability: A Breakdown
12
Looking past the crisis
¨ As you get deeper and deeper into the specifics of the 
crisis and the data, you will find yourself not only getting 
bogged down but in despair . 
¨ I have had moments in the last few weeks, when I have 
had to force myself to step back from the abyss and 
think about a post-virus world and to reclaim the 
initiative as an investor . 
¨ If you are a pessimist, you may view this as being in 
denial about what you see as an economic catastrophe 
that is about to unfold, but I am a natural optimist, and I 
believe that this too shall pass!
13
Start with your views on the economy!
¨ There is no disagreement hat the virus will cause the 
economy to go into a deep recession, since commerce is 
effectively shut down for at least a few weeks to come. 
¨ During that period, economic indicators such as 
unemployment claims & measures of economic activity will 
hit levels perhaps never seen before, given how big and 
broadly based the shock to the economy has been. 
¨ There are two questions, though, where there can be 
disagreement.
¤ How quickly will the global economy come back from the shut down, 
and when it does how completely will it recover?
¤ How much permanent change will be created by this crisis in terms of 
both consumer (and investor) behavior and economic structure?
14
Investment strategies for those more 
optimistic about economic comeback..
¨ Bargain Basement : In this strategy, you focus on stocks that have 
been pounded in the last few weeks, losing 40%, 50% or more of 
market value, but which have the ingredients that you believe will 
allow them to survive (large market cap, low net debt), perhaps 
stronger, in the post-virus economy. 
¨ Distressed Equity: There is a more risky strategy you can adopt, 
where you also look for stocks that have seen a significant loss in 
value over the last five weeks, but focus on the most endangered 
of these, with high net debt and fixed costs. 
n You are effectively buying options, with some already out of the money, 
and as with any strategy built around doing that, you will see a 
significant number of your investments go to zero. 
n Government bailouts, which are a mixed blessing, since they allow 
companies to survive, while wiping out or severely constraining equity 
claims in these companies.
15
And for those who are less optimistic 
about the turnaround
¨ Safety at a Reasonable Price (SARP): Here, you focus on 
companies that are best positioned to not just survive a long 
downturn but have the ammunition to make it work to their 
advantage. Large market cap firms with low debt ratios and 
high cash balances, that had high growth and profit margins 
in the pre-virus economy, would be good candidates.
¨ Change Agents: This is as much a bet on changes in consumer 
behavior and economic structure as it is on individual 
companies. Thus, if you believe that this crisis will make 
people more comfortable with delivery services for a wider 
range of goods and online interaction (in business and 
education), you could seek out lower profile companies that 
are innovators in these spaces.
16
A Composite Picture
