Source: https://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/ESGUpdate.pdf

THE ESG MOVEMENT: THE GOODNESS 
GRAVY TRAIN ROLLS ON!
Charity begins at home
Aswath Damodaran
2
Following up an ESG Post
¨Last year, Iwrote a post on ESGand explained why I was 
skeptical about the claims made by advocates about the 
payoffs it would bring to companies, investors and society. 
¤In the year since, I have heard from many on the topic, and while there 
are many who agreed with me on the internal inconsistencies in its 
arguments, there were quite a few who disagreed with me. 
¤In keeping with my belief that you learn more by engaging with those 
who disagree with you, than those who do, I have tried my best to see 
things through the eyes of ESG true believers, and I must confess that 
this is one topic, where the more I look at it, the more convinced I 
become that "there is no there there". 
¨More than ever, I believe that ESG is not just a mistake that 
will cost companies and investors money, while making the 
world worse off, but that it could be a catastrophic one for 
both businesses and society.
Aswath Damodaran
3
1. Goodness is difficult to measure, and 
the task will not get easier ..
¨The starting point for the ESG argument is the premise that we can 
come up withmeasures of goodness that can then be targeted by 
corporate managers and used by investors. To meet this demand, 
services have popped up around the world, claiming to measure 
ESG with scores and ratings. 
¨As I noted in my last post, there seems to be little consensus across 
services on how to measure goodness, and the low correlation 
across service measures of ESG has beenwell chronicled. 
¨The counter from the ESG services and ESG advocates is that these 
differences reflect growing pains, and just as bond ratings agencies 
found convergence on measuring default risk, services will also find 
commonalities. I think that view misses a key difference between 
default risk and goodness, insofar as default is an observable event 
and services were able to learn from corporate defaults and fine 
tune their ratings. 
Aswath Damodaran
4
Different value systems
Aswath Damodaran
5
ESG Scores and Company Size
Aswath Damodaran
6
ESG Scores and Disclosure Bulk
Aswath Damodaran
7
2. Being good will help some firms, hurt 
others and do others unaffected!
Aswath Damodaran
8
3. ESG sales pitch is internally inconsistent 
and fundamentally incoherent
Aswath Damodaran
9
Implications for investing
¨ The first is that it suggests thatmuch of the research on the relationship between 
ESG and returnsyields murky findings. Put simply, there is very little that we learn 
from these studies, whether they find positive or negative relationships between 
ESGand investor returns, since that relationship is compatible with a number of
competing hypotheses about ESG, value and price. 
¨ The second is that bringing in market pricing does shed some light on perhaps the 
only aspect of ESG investing that seems to deliver a payoff for investors, which 
isinvesting ahead or during market transitions. 
¤ I pointed tothis studythat find that activist investors who take stakes in "bad" companies and 
try to get them to change their ways generate significant excess returns from doing so.
¤ Another studycontends that investing in companies that improve their ESG can generate 
excess returns of about 3% a year, but skepticism is in order because it is based upon a 
proprietary ESG improvement score (REIS), andwas generated by an asset management firm 
that invests based upon that score. 
¨ If you are interested in making market transitions on ESG work in your favor, you 
also have tobe clear about the strengths you will need to get the payoffs, 
including skills in divining not only what social values are gaining and losing 
ground and which changes have staying power .
Aswath Damodaran
10
4. Outsourcing your conscience is a salve, 
not a solution!
¨ The ESG movement has given each of us an easy way out of having to make 
choices, by outsourcing these choices to corporate CEOs and investment fund 
managers, asking them to be “good” for us, while not charging us more for their 
products and services (as consumers) and delivering above-average returns (as 
investors). 
¨ Implicit in the ESG push is the presumption that unless companies that are 
explicitly committed to ESG, they cannot contribute to society, but that is not true. 
Consider Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, two men who built extraordinarily 
valuable companies, with goodness a factor in decision making only if it was good 
for business. Both men have not only madegiving pledges, promising to give away 
most of their wealth to their favorite causes in their lifetimes, and living up to that 
promise, but they have also made their shareholders wealthy, andmany of them 
give money back to society. 
¨ As I see it, the difference between this “old” model of business and the proposed 
“new ESG” version is in who does the giving to society, with corporate CEOs and 
management taking over that responsibility from shareholders. I am not willing to 
concede, without challenge, that a corporate CEO knows my value system better 
than I do, as a shareholder, and is better positioned to make judgments on how 
much to give back to society, and to whom, than I am.
Aswath Damodaran
11
An inside perspective…
¨For a perspective more informed and eloquent than mine, I would 
strongly recommendthis piece by Tariq Fancy, whose stint at 
BlackRock, as chief investment officer for sustainable investing, put 
him at the heart of the ESG investing movement. 
¤He argues that trusting companies and investment fund managers to make 
the right judgments for society will fail, because their views (and actions) 
will be driven by profits, for companies, and investment returns, for fund 
managers. 
¤He also believes that governments and regulators have been derelict in 
writing rules and laws, allowing companies to step into the void. 
¨While I don’t share Tariq’s faith that government actions are the 
solution, I share his view that entities whose prime reasons for 
existence are to generate profits for shareholders (companies) or 
returns for investors (investment funds) all ill suited to be 
custodians of public good.
Aswath Damodaran
12
Cui Bono? (Who benefits?)
Aswath Damodaran
13
And why it keeps on rolling..
¨Given that shareholders in companies and investors in funds are paying 
for this gravy, you may wonder why corporate CEOs not only go along with 
this charade, but also actively encourage it, and the answer lies in the 
power it gives them to bypass shareholders and to evade accountability. 
¨After all, these are the same CEOs who, in 2019, put forth thefanciful, but 
great sounding, argumentthat it is a company’s responsibility to maximize 
stakeholder wealth, rather than cater to shareholders, which Iargued in a 
postthen that being accountable to everyone effectively meant that CEOs 
were accountable to no one. 
¨In some cases, flaunting goodness has become a way that founders and 
CEOs use to cover business model weaknesses and overreach. It is a point 
that I made in my posts onTheranos, at the time of its implosion in 
October 2015, and onWeWork, during its IPO debacle in 2019, noting 
that Elizabeth Holmes and Adam Neumann used their “noble purpose” 
credentials to cover up fraud and narcissism. 
Aswath Damodaran
14
A Roadmap for being and doing good
1. Start with a personalized measure of goodness, and don’t overreach: The key with moral codes 
is that they are personal, and for goodness to be incorporated into your investment and 
business decisions, you have tobring in your value judgments, rather than leave it to ESG 
measurement services or to portfolio managers.
2. As a business person, be clear on how being good will affect business models and value: If you 
own a business, you are absolutely within your rights to bring your personal views on morality 
into your business decisions, but if you do so, you should be at peace with the fact that staying 
true to your values may, and probably will, cost you money. If you are making decisions at a 
publicly traded company, as an employee, manager or even CEO, you are investing other 
people’s money and if you choose to make decisions based upon your personalized moral code, 
you have an obligation to be open about what your conscience will cost your shareholders.
3. As an investor, understand how much goodness has been priced in: If you are an investor, you 
don’t have to compromise on your values, as long asyou realize, at least in the long term, you 
will have to accept lower returns than you would have earned without that constraint..
4. As a consumer and citizen, make choices that are consistent with your moral code:Your 
consumption decisions (on which products and services you buy) and your citizenship decisions 
(on voting and community participation) have as big, if not greater, an effect. 
AswathDamodaran
15
In conclusion..
¨On a personal note, I have always found that the people that I've known 
who do good, spend very little time talking about being good or lecturing 
other people on goodness. I would extend that perspective to companies 
and investment funds as well, and I reserve my skepticism for those 
companies that spend hundreds of pages of their annual filings telling me 
how much "good" they do.
¨The ESG movement’s biggest disservice is the sense that it has given 
those who are torn between morality and money, that they can have it all. 
Telling companies that being good will always make them more valuable, 
investors that they can add morality constraints to their investments and 
earn higher returns at the same time, and young job seekers that they can 
be paid like bankers, while doing peace corps work, is delusional. 
¨In the long term, as the truth emerges, it will breed cynicism in everyone 
involved, and if you care about the social good, it will do more damage 
than good. The truth is that,most of the time, being good will cost you 
and/or inconvenience you (as businesses, investors or employees), and 
that you choose to be good, in spite ofthat concern. 
Aswath Damodaran
