Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/Decline2024.pdf

DEALING WITH DECLINE: INTEL, 
WALGREENSAND STARBUCKS!
The Personal Disruption Manual
2
The Lead In..
¨Afewweeksago,Ipostedonthecorporatelifecycle,thesubjectofmy
latestbook.Iarguedthatthecorporatelifecyclecanexplainwhat
happenscompaniesastheyage,andwhytheiractions,choicesand
managementhavetoadapttoaging.
¨Intheclosingsection,Ialsoarguedthatmanagingandinvestingin
companiesbecomesmostdifficultwhencompaniesenterthelastphases
oftheirlifecycles,withrevenuesstagnatingorevendecliningand
marginsunderpressure.
¨Whileconsultants,bankersandevensomeinvestorspushcompaniesto
reinventthemselves,andreincarnate,thetruthisthatformost
companies,thebestpathwayistoacceptdecline,shrinkandevenshut
down.
¨Inthispost,Iwilllookatthreehighprofilecompanies,Intel,Starbucks
andWalgreens,thathavehittheskids,andexaminehowtheygoto
wheretheyare,andwhattheoptionsarelookingforward.
3
The Market passes judgment…
4
1. Intel: A Tech Superstar Stumbles
¨Inelis not old, in terms of chronological age, but at fifty six(it 
was founded in 1968), the question is whether its best years 
are behind it, rather than ahead. 
¨The company's growth in the 1990s to reach the peak of the 
semiconductor business is the stuff of case studies, and it 
stayed at the top for longer than most of its tech 
contemporaries. 
¨Intel's CEO for its glory years was Andy Grove, who joined the 
company on its date of incorporation in 1968, andstayed on 
to become chairman and CEO before stepping down in 1998. 
¨He argued for constant experimentation and adaptive 
leadership, and the title of his book, "Only the Paranoid 
Survive", captured his management ethos.
5
Intel’s Operating History
6
And its market slippage…
7
Trying too hard?
¨Intel has invested massive amounts into its chip 
manufacturing business (Intel Foundry), trying to compete 
with TSMC, and almost as much into its new generation of AI 
chips, hoping to claim market share of the fastest growing 
markets for AI chips from Nvidia. 
¨In fact, a benign assessment of Intel would be that they are 
making the right moves, but that these moves will take time 
to pay off, and that the market is being impatient. 
¨A not-so-benign reading is that the market does not believe 
that Intel can compete effectively against either TSMC (on 
chip manufacture) or Nvidia (on chip design), and that the 
money spent on both endeavors will be wasted.
8
2. Walgreens –Your neighborhood 
pharmacy!
¨From humble beginnings in Chicago, Walgreen has 
grown to become a key part of the US health care 
system as a dispenser of pharmacy drugs and 
products. 
¨The company went public in 1927, and in the 
century since, the company has acquired the 
characteristics of a mature company, with growth 
spurts along the way. Its acquisition of Alliance Boots 
made it a larger presence, albeit at a high price, with 
the acquisition costing $15.3 billion.
9
Walgreen’s operating history
10
The Pharmacy Business in trouble?
11
The Acquisition Growth Option
¨In response to the slowing down of the pharmacy 
business, Walgreens has tried, again perhaps much too 
hard. 
¨A new CEO, Roz Brewer, was brought into the company 
in 2021, from Sam's Club, and wagered the company's 
future on acquisitions, buying four companies in 2021, 
with a majority stake in Village MD, a chain of doctor 
practices and clinics, representing the biggest one. 
¤That acquisition, which cost Walgreens $5.2 billion, has been 
more cash drain than flow, and in 2024, Ms. Brewer was 
replaced as CEO by Tim Wentworth, and Village MD scaled back 
its growth plans.
12
3. Starbucks –Reinventing coffee?
¨ it is undeniable that Starbuckshasfound a way into the lives of 
many people, whose day cannot begin without their favorite 
Starbucks drink in hand. 
¨Early on, Starbucks eased the process by opening more and more 
stores, often within blocks of each other, and more recently, by 
offering online ordering, with pick up, with rewards supercharging 
the process. 
¨Howard Schulz, who nursed the company from a single store front 
in Seattle to anubiquitous presence across America, was CEO of 
the company from 1986, and while he retired from the position in 
2000, he returned from 2008 to 2017, to rescore the company after 
the financial crisis, and again from 2022 to 2023, as an interim CEO 
to bridge the gap between the retirement of Kevin Johnson in 2022 
and the hiring of Laxman Narasimhan in 2023.
13
Starbucks’ Operating History
14
But a changing business model..
15
So, why the angst?
¨Disappointinggrowth investor base: The first is that there are 
some investors who continue to hold on to the hope that the 
company will be able to return to double digitgrowth, and 
the only pathway to get there requires that Starbucks be able 
to succeed in China and India. 
¨A changing story: The second problem is that the narrative for 
the company, where coffee shops become a gathering spot 
for friends and acquaintances, has broken down, partly 
because of the success of its online ordering expansion. 
¨Inflation’s toll: The third problem is that inflation in product 
and employee costs has made its products expensive, leading 
to less spending even from its most loyal customers.
16
A Corporate Life Cycle Perspective
17
Dealing with Decline
18
Setting the odds: Intel
¨It is my view that Intel's problems stem largely from too much me-too-ism 
and perhaps aspiring for growth levels that they cannot reach. 
¨On both Ai and the chip manufacturing business, Intel is going up against 
competition (Nvidia on AI and TSMC on manufacturing) that has a clear 
lead and significant competitive advantages. 
¨However, the market is large enough and has sufficient growth for Intel to 
find a place in both, but not as a leader . It is likely that even if it succeeds, 
Intel will revert to middle age, not high growth, but that should still make 
it a good investment.
19
Setting the odds: Walgreens
¨Even with its store closures, Walgreens remains the second largest 
drugstore chain in the United States, after CVS. 
¨Shrinking its presence to its most productive stores and shedding the rest 
may be the pathway to steady state, but the company will have to figure 
out a way to bring down its debt proportionately. 
¨There is the risk that a macro slowdown or a capital market shock, causing 
default risk and spreads to widen, could cause equity investors to fold.
20
Setting the odds: Starbucks
Aswath Damodaran
20
¨Starbucks is the outlier among the three companies, insofar 
as its revenue growth is still robust and it remains a money-
making firm. 
¨Its biggest problem is that it has lost its story line, and it 
needs to rediscover a narrative that can not only give 
investors a sense of where it is going, butwill redirect how it 
is managed. 
¨As I noted in my post on corporate life cycle, story telling 
requires visionaries, and in the case of Starbucks, that 
visionary has tounderstand the logistical challenges of 
running coffee shops.
21
Does Brian Niccol fit the bill?
Aswath Damodaran
21
¨I do not know enough about Brian Niccol to determine whether he fits the 
bill. As someone who led Taco Bell and Chipotle, I think that he can get 
the second part (understanding restaurant logistics) nailed down, but is 
he a visionary? 
¨He might be, but visionary CEOs generally do not live a thousand miles 
from corporate headquarters and fly corporate jets to work part time at 
their jobs, and Niccol has provided no sense of what he sees as the new 
Starbucks narrative yet.
22
The Endgame
¨ Thereisareasonthatsomanypeoplewanttobeentrepreneursandstartnewbusinesses.
Notwithstandingthehighmortalityrate,buildinganewbusinessisexcitingand,ifsuccessful,
hugelyrewarding.
¨ Ahealthyeconomywillencourageentrepreneurship,providingriskcapitalandnottiltingthe
playingfieldtowardsestablishedplayers;itremainsthestrongestadvantagethattheUnitedStates
hasovermuchoftherestoftheworld.
¨ However,itisalsotruethatthemeasureofahealthyeconomyisinhowitdealswithdeclining
businessesandfirms.Ifcapitalismisallaboutcreativedestruction,itfollowsthatcompanies,
whichareafteralllegalentitiesthatoperatebusinesses,shouldfadeawayasthereasonsfortheir
existencefade.
¨ Weneedahealthierframingofcorporatedecline,asinevitableatallfirms,atsomestageintheir
lifecycle,ratherthansomethingthatshouldbefought.
¤ Inbusinessschoolsandbooks,weneedtohighlightnotjusttheempirebuildersandthereincarnations,i.e.,
CEOswhomadetheircompaniesbigger,buttheempireshrinkers,i.e.,CEOswhoarebroughtintodeclining
firms,whopresideoveranorderly(andvalueadding)shrinkageorbreakingoftheirfirms.
¤ Ininvesting,itistruethattheglorygetsreservedfortheMagSevenandtheFANGAMstocks,companies
thathaveseentheirmarketcapitalizationclimbintothetrillions,butweshouldalsopayattention
tocompaniesthatnimblynavigatetheirwaythroughbadbusinessestodelivervaluetoshareholders.
