Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DiscountRateMyth2.pdf

Discount	Rate	Myth	2:	It’s	all	
about	the	D	in	DCF
2
The	Focus	on	Discount	Rates
¨ In	both	academia	and	practice,	there	is	far	more	
attention	paid	to	discount	rates	than	to	the	
estimation	of	cash	flows.
¨ In	academia,	this	focus	can	be	traced	to	the	fact	that	
it	is	far	easier	to	build	theory	and	general	models	for	
discount	rates	than	cash	flows.
¨ In	practice,	the	focus	can	be	traced	to
¤ An	over	estimation	of	the	impact	of	discount	rates	on	
value.	(The	Gordon	Growth	Model	Effect)
¤ A	need	for	control
3
1.	The	DDM	Effect
• At	the	root	of	DCF	is	the	Gordon	Growth	Model,	a	
model	designed	to	value	a	mature	company	that	
pays	out	all	excess	cash	flows	as	dividends.
• In	this	model,	the	dividends	are	given,	the	expected	
growth	rate	is	an	exogenous	input	and	not	
surprisingly,	small	changes	in	the	discount	rate	
translate	into	big	changes	in	value.
4
A	Simple	Illustration
5
Reason	2:	Control
• When	faced	with	significant	uncertainty	in	valuation,	
it	is	comforting	to	turn	our	attention	back	to	
discount	rates,	where	we	can	draw	on	established	
models	and	data	to	estimate	and	fine	tune	the	
components	(risk	premiums,	betas,	costs	of	debt).	
• Estimating	risk	free	rates,	betas	and	equity	risk	
premiums	to	the	second,	third	or	even	fourth	
decimal	points	offers	the	illusion	of	control	in	a	
world	where	estimates	of	revenue	growth	and	
operating	margins	are	difficult.
6
Not	much	room	to	be	different..	US	
company	cost	of	capital	in	2016
7
The	Global	Analog
8
The	Bottom	Line
• It	is	the	cash	flow:	When	you	make	big	mistakes	in	
valuation,	it	is	almost	always	because	you	got	the	
cash	flows	wrong,	not	the	discount	rate.
• Especially	for	younger	companies:	It	is	particularly	
true	for	younger	companies	and	in	the	face	of	
uncertainty	about	the	future.	Instead	of	spending	
most	of	our	time	during	valuation	
• A	Suggestion:	If	you	have	to	value	a	US	company	in	a	
hurry,	why	not	just	use	a	cost	of	capital	of	8%	in	July	
2016,	the	median	value	for	US	stocks,	and	spend	
your	limited	time	on	the	numerator	(cash	flows)?
