Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate7for2023.pdf

DATA UPDATE 7 FOR 2023: 
DIVIDENDS AND BUYBACKS
Seed and harvest!
2
DataUpdate:Winding down…
¨I plan to focus on dividends and buybacks, perhaps the most most 
misunderstood and misplayed aspect of corporate finance. 
¨To illustrate the heat that buybacks evoke, consider two stories in 
the last two weeks where buybacks have been in the news. 
¨In the first, critics of Norfolk Southern, the corporation that operates the 
trains that were involved in a dreadful chemical accident in Ohio, pointed 
to buybacks that it had done as the proximate cause for brake failure and 
the damage. 
¨In the second, Warren Buffet used some heated language to describe 
those who opposed buybacks, calling them “economic illiterates” and 
“silver tongued demagogues “. 
¨Going back in time to last year’s inflation reduction act, buybacks 
were explicitly targeted for taxes, with the perspective that they 
were damaging US companies.
3
Dividend Policy in Corporate Finance
4
Dividends as residual cash flows
5
Dysfunctional Dividend Policy
6
Measuring Potential Dividends
7
Cash Return across the Life Cycle
8
The Data on Age and Cash Return
9
Dividends and Buybacks: The Facts
¨Four decades into the buyback surge, there are enough facts 
that we can extract by looking at the data that are worth 
highlighting. 
¤First, it is undeniable that US companies have moved dramatically 
away from dividends to buybacks, as their primary mode of cash 
return, and that companies in the rest of the world are starting to 
follow suit. 
¤Second, that shift is being driven by the recognition on the part of 
firms that earnings, even at the most mature firms, have become more 
volatile, and that initiating and paying dividends can trap firms in 
dangerous patterns. 
¤Third, while much has been made of the tax benefits to shareholders 
from buybacks, as opposed to dividends, that tax differential has 
narrowed and perhaps even disappeared over time.
10
The Shift to Buybacks
11
And it is not just the US…
12
2. The Flexibility Argument for Buybacks
13
Dividends versus Buybacks
14
3. Buybackshaveataxadvantagestill,but
itismuch smaller than it used to be..
15
Buybacks: The Fiction
¨The fictions about buybacks are widespread and are driven as 
much by ideological blinders as they by a failure to 
understand what a business is, and how to operate it. 
¤The first is that buybacks can increase or decrease the value of a 
business, with buyback advocates making the former argument and 
buyback critics the latter . They are both wrong, since buybacks can 
only redistribute value, not create it. 
¤The second is that surge in buybacks has been fed by debt financing, 
and it is part of a larger and darker picture of over levered companies 
catering to greedy, short-term shareholders. 
¤The third is that buybacks are bad for an economy, with the logic that 
the cash that is being used for the buybacks is not being invested back 
in the business, and that the latter is better for economic growth.
¤The final argument is that the large buybacks at US companies 
represent cash that is being taken away from other stakeholders, 
including employees and customers, and is thus unfair .
16
1. Buybacks add (destroy) value
17
But buybacks can redistribute value…
¨Dividends are paid to all shareholders, and thus cannot make one group 
of shareholders better or worse off than others. 
¨Buybacks are selective, since only those shareholders who sell their 
shares back receive the buyback price, and they have the potential to 
redistribute value. 
¤ A company that buys back stock at too high a price, relative to its intrinsic value, is 
redistributing value from the shareholders who remain in the company to those 
who sell their shares back. 
¤In contrast, a company that buys back shares at a low price, relative to its intrinsic 
value, is redistributing value from the shareholders who sell their shares back to 
those who stay shareholders in the firm. 
¨It is true that some companies buy back stock at the high prices, and if 
that is your reason, as a shareholder in the company for taking a stand 
against buybacks, I have a much simpler and more effective response than 
banning buybacks. Just sell your shares back and be on the right side of 
the redistribution game!
18
2. Buybacks are being funded with debt..
19
3. Buybacks are bad for the economy
¨Companiesthatreturncashtoshareholders,whetheras
dividendsorbuybacks,arenotreinvestingthecash,andthat
factaloneissufficientforsometoargueagainstbuybacks.
Therearetwopremisesonwhichthisargumentisbuilt,and
theyarebothfalse.
•Thefirstisthatacompanyinvestingbackintoitsownbusinessis
alwaysbetterfortheeconomythanthatcompanynotinvesting,and
thatmissesthefactthatinvestinginbadbusinesses,justforthesake
ofinvestingisnotgoodforeithershareholdersortheeconomy.
•Thesecondisthatthemoneyreturnedinbuybacks,whichexceededa
trilliondollarslastyear,somehowdisappearedintoablackhole,when
thetruthisthatmuchofthatmoneygotreinvestedbackintothe
marketincompaniesthatwereinbetterbusinessesandneeded
capitaltogrow?
20
4. Buybacks are unfair to other 
stakeholders
¨If the argument against buybacks is that the money spent on 
buybacks could have been spent paying higher wages to employees 
or improving product quality, that is true. 
¨That argument is really one about how the pie is being split among 
the different shareholders, and whether companies are generating 
profits that excessive, relative to the capital invested. 
¤I argued in my fifth data post that if there is backing for a proposition, it is 
that companies are not earning enough on capital invested, not that they 
are earning too much. 
¨I will wager that if you did break down pay per hour or employee 
benefits, they will be much better at companies that are buying 
back stock than at companies that don't. Unfortunately, I do not 
have access to data at the company-level on either statistic, but I 
am willing to consider evidence to the contrary.
21
Buybacks: Symptom, not cause…
¨It is telling that some of the most vehement criticism of buybacks 
come from people who least understand business or markets, and 
that the legislative solutions that they craft reflect this ignorance. 
¨Taxing buybacks because you are unable to raise corporate tax 
rates may be an effective revenue generator for the moment, but
pushing that rate up higher will only cause the cash return to take 
different forms. Just as the attempts to curb top management 
compensation in the early 1990s gave rise to management options 
and a decade of even higher compensation, attempts to tax 
buybacks may backfire. 
¨If the end game in taxing buybacks is to change corporate behavior, 
trying to induce invest more in their businesses, it will be for the 
most part futile and if it does work, will do more harm than good 
to the economy.
