Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/CLC/slides/Ch11.pdf

VALUING HIGH 
GROWTH FIRMS
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§With high growth companies, the key 
parts of the story will relate to the 
business model being built and how 
that model will play out in terms of 
scalability (growth), profitability 
(margins) and reinvestment (growth 
efficiency).
§With high growth companies, when 
spinning your business narrative, the 
focus will still stay on potential, but 
more weight must be given to the 
financial history of the company and 
its corporate governance structure. 
§In some cases, this record can make you 
more enthusiastic about the company’s 
prospects (revenue growth and 
profitability) and in others, it can lead 
you to scale back your story. 
Aswath Damodaran
§On revenues, the biggest questions arise, 
as you make assumptions that revenues 
can be scaled up. To make this 
assessment, you can look at market size, 
and what you are giving your company 
as market share, given your growth 
assumptions, and potential competition. 
§On operating profit margins, the positive 
trend lines in profits can lead to over 
optimism about operating profit margins, 
but it has to be tempered by unit 
economics.
§On reinvestment, assessing whether a 
company is reinvesting enough to deliver 
its growth can be difficult, since 
historical reinvestment is likely to be 
volatile and obscured by investments 
and acquisitions that are paid for with the 
company’ s stock. There may be clues in 
the industry averages and in the business 
model.
Aswath Damodaran
§Revenue growth rates will decrease as 
companies get larger, and every growth 
company will get larger over time if our 
forecasts of growth come to fruition. 
§The following should be considered in 
estimating revenue growth:
§Absolute revenue changes: One simple 
test is to compute the absolute change in 
revenues each period, rather than to trust 
the percentage growth rate. 
§Trend lines: Looking at past revenue 
growth rates, by year, for the firm in 
question should give us a sense of how 
growth rates have changed as the 
company size changed in the past. 
§Sector data: The final tool is to look at 
revenue growth rates of more mature 
firms in the business to get a sense of 
what a reasonable growth rate will be as 
the firm becomes larger.
Aswath Damodaran
§Let’s start with the most likely case, which is 
that the current margin is either negative or 
too lowrelative to the sustainable long-term 
margin. This can happen for three reasons. 
§One is that the firm has up-front fixed costs that 
must be incurred in the initial phases of growth, 
with the payoff in terms of revenue and growth in 
later periods
§The second reason is the mingling of expenses 
incurred to generate growth with operating 
expenses. As the firm matures, this problem will 
get smaller, leading to higher margins and profits. 
§The third reason is that there might be a lag 
between expenses being incurred and revenues 
being generated. 
§The other possibility, where the current 
margin is too high and will decrease over 
time, is less likely, but it can occur, especially 
with growth companies that have a niche 
product in a small market. As the firm grows, 
this will change, and margins will decrease. 
Aswath Damodaran
§Since high growth firms tend to have 
changing margins, we will adopt the same 
road map we used for young growth 
companies, where we estimated 
reinvestment based on the change in 
revenues and the sales-to-capital ratio:
Reinvestmentt= Change in Revenuest/ 
(Sales/Capital)
§The sales-to-capital ratio can be 
estimated using the company’s data
(which is more stable than the net capital 
expenditure or working capital numbers) 
and the sector averages. 
§We can build lags between the 
reinvestment and revenue change into the 
computation by using revenues in a future 
period to estimate reinvestment in the 
current one. 
Aswath Damodaran
§The key to maintaining balance in growth 
company valuations is to adjust the 
discount rates over time to keep them 
consistent with the growth and margin 
assumptions that we make in each period. 
§Growth firms should have high costs for 
equity and debt when revenue growth is 
highest, but the costs of debt and equity 
should decline as revenue growth 
moderates and margins improve.
§As earnings improve and growth drops, 
another phenomenon comes into play. The 
firm generates more cash flows than it 
needs, which it can use to both pay 
dividends and service debt financing. 
§In summary, the cost of capital for a 
growth company should be a year-
specific number that keeps pace with 
the rest of the changes we forecast at the 
firm 
Aswath Damodaran
§Do not wait too long to put a firm into stable 
growth. 
§Both scale and competition conspire to lower 
growth ratesquickly at even the most promising 
growth companies. 
§Growth periods that exceed ten years, 
especially when accompanied by high growth 
rates over these periods, are uncommon, 
because only a few companies have been able to 
accomplish this over time. 
§When you put your firm into stable growth, 
give it the characteristics of a stable growth 
firm. 
§With discount rates, as noted in the preceding 
section, this takes the form of using lower costs of 
debt and equity and a higher debt ratio. 
§With reinvestment, the key assumption is the 
return on capital that we assume for the stable 
growth phase. 
§While some analysts believe that the return on 
capital should be set equal to the cost of capital in 
stable growth, we would preserve some 
company-specific flexibility. 
Aswath Damodaran
§The nature of cash flows at growth 
companies[md]low or negative in the 
early years and higher later[md]will 
ensure that the terminal value is a 
high proportion of value, accounting 
for 80%, 90% or even more than 100% 
of value. 
§Some analysts use this fact as ammunition 
against using discounted cash flow 
valuations, suggesting that assumptions 
about the high-growth phase will be 
drowned out by terminal value 
assumptions. 
§The base year value for the terminal 
value calculation (earnings and cash 
flows in year 5 or 10) is a function of the 
assumptions during the high-growth 
phase. Changing these assumptions 
will have dramatic effects (as it 
should) on value.
Aswath Damodaran
§When you estimate a value for a high growth 
company that is very different from the 
market price, in either direction, it should be 
natural that you pause and consider why:
§Yo u  a r e  w r o n g: The difference between price and 
value may be because your estimates of inputs, 
include revenue growth, margins and 
reinvestment are wrong, and that the market 
consensus is right.
§The market is wrong: The value-price difference 
can arise because the market, caught up in mood 
and momentum, has pushed the stock price to a 
level that does not reflect its intrinsic value.
§Yo u  a r e  b o th  w r o n g, but one of you is less wrong: 
The truth is that neither you nor the market has a 
crystal ball, and that you are making your best 
estimates for the future. 
§The healthiest response, in our view, when 
value and price are different, is to assume that 
you may be missing something that the 
market is seeing but having examined the data 
and made the appropriate tweaks, you can end 
up with value still being different from the 
price.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Forward Numbers: The first is to scale 
market values to expected operating 
outcomes in the future.Thus, rather 
than divide price per share today by 
current earnings per share, you can 
divide by expected earnings per share 
in five or even ten years and compare 
these forward multiples across the peer 
group. 
§Growth-adjusted Multiples: High growth 
firms will look expensive, if you look at 
just PE ratios. One approach that can, at 
least on surface, deal with this problem 
is to bring in the growth into the pricing 
multiple:
PEG ratio = PE ratio/ Expected growth rate
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§While many investors view growth as 
an unalloyed good, it requires a 
tradeoff, where a company invests 
more back into itself in the near term, 
denying payouts (dividends or 
buybacks) to its investors, during that 
period, for higher earnings in the 
future.
§The net effect of growth will depend 
on how much is reinvested back, 
relative to what the company can 
harvest as future growth. 
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
§Yo u  c a n  h o l d  a l l  e l s e  c o n s t a n t , a n d  
change one variable (growth, revenues, 
risk) and find the breakeven value for 
that variable that will yield the current 
market price. The problem with this 
approach is that it requires to isolate 
one out of many key inputs to come to 
your conclusion.
§A more expansive approach to backing 
out market expectations is to pick two 
or even three of the most critical 
inputs into valuationand look for 
combinations of assumptions on these 
variables that yield the market price.
§A third variant is to go back to the story 
that you built your valuation around, 
and see how, as you change the story , 
the valuation changes.
Aswath Damodaran
Aswath Damodaran
