Source: https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/TeslaOct2023.pdf

TESLA IN OCTOBER 2023: STORY 
TWISTS AND TURNS!
Growing up Pains!
2
My Tesla History
¨Valuationisacraft,andthereareveryfewcompaniesthatIenjoy
practicingthatcraftmorethanIdowithTesla.Alongtheway,I
havebeenwrongoftenonthecompany,andifyouareoneof
thosewhoonlyreadsvaluationsbypeoplewhogetitrightallthe
time,youshouldskiptherestofthispost.
¨MyfirstvaluationofTeslawasin2013,whenitwasanascent
automobilefirm,sellinglessthan25,000carsayear,andviewedby
therestoftheautomobilesectorwithamixofdisdain
andcuriosity.
¤Ivalueditasaluxuryautomobilefirmthatwouldsucceedassuch,givingit
Audi-levelrevenuesin2022ofabout$65billionandoperatingmarginsof
12.50%thatyear(reflectingluxuryautomargins).
¤Todeliverthisgrowth,IdidassumethatTeslawouldhavetoinvestlarge
amountsofcapitalincapacity,andthatthiswouldcreateasignificantdrag
onvalue,resultinginaequityvalueofjustunder$10billion.
3
Learning along the way?
1. Rethinking assembly plants: I realized that the company was 
capable of generatinggrowth much more efficiently, and more 
flexibly, than other auto companies, reducing the capital 
investment needed for growth. 
2. A loyal and evangelist customer base: I noticed that Tesla 
customerswere almost fanatically attached to the company's 
products, and were willing to evangelize about it, yielding a brand 
loyalty that legacy auto companies could only dream about. 
3. A Visionary and Unpredictable CEO: In a world where many 
companies are run by CEO who are, at best, operating 
automatons, and at worst, evidence of the Peter Principle at play, 
where incompetence rises to the top, Tesla had a CEO whose 
primary problem was too much vision, rather than too little.
4
Tesla, the Story Stock
5
Stories and Value in 2016
6
Tesla, the Corporate Teenager 
¨Tesla (or more precisely, Musk) made choices that could be, at best, 
described as puzzling, and, at worst, as dangerous for the company's long-
term health, including:
¤Borrowing money in 2017, when equity would have been a much better option
¤Setting targets on production (remember the5000 cars a weekfor the company in 
2018) and cash flows (positive cash flows in 2018) that pushed the company into a 
corner . 
¨If you add to that the self-inflicted wounds from tweeting out that he had 
a deal tosell the company at $420 a share, funding secured, in 2018, it is 
not surprising that the stock has had periods of trauma. 
¨It was after one of these downturns in 2019, when the stock hit $180 
(with a market cap of $32 billion), thatI bought Tesla for the first time, 
albeit labeling it as my corporate teenager, an investment that would 
would sometimes get in the way of its own potential.
7
Tesla, on top of the world! (November 
2021)
8
Andatthebottom(nJanuary2023)
9
Tesla in 2023: Stock prices
10
Tesla: Financial News in 2023
11
Tesla: News Stories in 2023
1. Price Cuts: During the course of2023, Tesla has repeatedlycut prices on 
its offerings, with the most recent ones coming earlier this month, The 
$1,250 reduction in the Model 3 should see its price drop to about 
$39,000, making it competitive, even on a purely price basis, in the mass 
auto market in the United States. 
2. Full Self Driving (FSD): Tesla, as a company, haspushed its work on full self 
drivingto the forefront of its story, though there remains a divide in how 
far ahead Tesla is of its competition, and the long-term prospects for 
automated driving. Its novelty and news value has made it a central 
theme of debate, with Tesla fans and critics using its successes and 
failures as grist for their social media postings. 
3. Cybertruck: After years of waiting, the Tesla Cybertruckis here, and it too 
has garnered outsized attention, partly because of itsunique design,and 
partly because it is Tesla's entree into a market, where traditional auto 
companies still dominate.
12
Time for a Reset?
Aswath Damodaran
12
¨In my Tesla valuations through the start of 2023, I have valued Tesla 
as an automobile company, with the other businesses captured in 
top line numbers, rather than broken out individually. 
¤That does not mean that they are adding significantly to value, but that 
the value addition is buried in an input to value, rather than estimated 
standing alone. 
¤In my early 2023 valuation, I estimated an operating margin of 16% for 
Tesla, well above auto industry averages, because I believed that software 
and or the robotaxibusinesses, in addition to delivering additional 
revenues, would augment operating margins, since they are high-margin 
businesses.
¨The news stories about Tesla this year have made me reassess that 
point of view, since they feed into the narrative that Tesla not only 
believes that the software and robotaxibusinesses have significant 
value potential as stand-alone businesses, but it is acting 
accordingly.
13
1.Cybertrucks
Aswath Damodaran
13
¨If the advance orders are an indication of pent-up demand and the 
Cybertruckrepresents an extension into a hitherto untapped market, it 
does increase Tesla's revenue growth potential. 
¨There are two potential negatives to consider, and Musk mentioned both 
during the course ofthe most recent earnings call. 
¤The first is that the cost of building these trucks may be higher than the cost of 
equivalent cars and, if priced comparably, result in lower margins. 
¤The other is that the Cybertruckwill require its own production facilities, with the 
Texas plant now thehubfor production, pushing up reinvestment needs. 
¨If Cybertrucksales are brisk, and the demand is strong, the positives will 
outweigh the negatives, but if the buzz fades, and it becomes a niche 
product, it may very well prove a distraction that reduces value. 
¨The value added by Cybertruckswill also depend, in part, on who buys 
them, with Tesla gaining more if the sales comes from truck buyers, 
coming from other companies, than it will if the sales comes from Tesla 
car buyers, which will cannibalize their own sales.
14
2. F(ull) S(elf) D(riving)
¨On the plus side, Tesla is clearly further along this road 
than any other company, not only from a technological 
standpoint, but also from business model and 
marketingstandpoints. 
¤While I do not believe that charging $12,000 for FSD as an add-
on will create a big market, lowering that price will open the 
door not only to software sales to Tesla drivers, but perhaps 
even to other carmakers. 
¤In addition, it seems clear to me that the Tesla robotaxibusiness 
has now moved from possible to plausible on my scale, and thus 
merits being taken seriously. 
¨On the minus side, I do agree that the world is not quite 
ready for driverless cars, on scale, and that rushing the 
product to market can be catastrophic.
15
3.Price Cuts and Value
16
Tesla’s Business Landscape
17
Tesla: My Business Stories
Aswath Damodaran
17
19
My Tesla action plan
¨Insum,thevaluepersharethatIgetwithTesla'sbusinessesbrokendown
andallowingfordivergentgrowthandprofitabilityacrossthebusinesses,
isabout$180ashare.
¨At$197ashare,Teslaremainsovervalued,atleastbasedonmystory,
butastockthathasdropped$54inpriceinthelastfewweekscouldvery
welldropanother$20inthenextfew.Tocapturethatpossibility,Ihavea
limitbuyatmyestimatedvalueof$180.
¨Whynomarginofsafety?
¤AsmyJanuary2023simulationofTeslavaluereveals,thisisacompanywith
moreupsidethandownside,andthatmakeafair-valueinvestmentonethatI
canlivewith.
¤Ibelievethatinvestorsmusttakeownershipoftheirinvestmentdecisions,and
IwouldsuggestthattheonlywayforyoutomakeyourownjudgmentonTesla
istoframeyourstoryandvalueitbasedon.
