Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/blog/DataUpdate2for2021.pdf

DATA UPDATE 2 FOR 2021: THE 
PRICE OF RISK!
Risk on, risk off…
2
The ”One” Metric
¨Investors are often in search of a single metric that will tell them whether 
a market is under or over valued, and consequently whether they should 
buyingor selling holdings in that market. 
¨With equities, the metric that has been in use the longest is the PE ratio, 
modified in recent years to the CAPE, where earnings are normalized (by 
averaging over time) and sometimes adjusted for inflation. 
¤That metric, though, has been signaling that stocks are over valued for most of the 
last decade, a ten-year period when stocks delivered blockbuster returns.  
¤The failures of the signal have been variously attributed to low interest rates, 
accounting mis-measurement of earnings (especially at tech companies), and by 
some, to animal spirits. 
¨In this post, I offer an alternative, albeit a more complicated, metric that I 
believe not only offers a more comprehensive measure of pricing levels, 
but also a barometer of the ups and downs in the market in 2020.
3
ThePriceofRisk
4
Basic Propositions
1. Risk premiums can be estimated: If you can observe the price that an 
investor pays for a risky asset, andare willing to estimate the expected 
cash flows on that asset, you can estimate the expected return on that 
asset and net out the risk freeasset to arrive at a risk premium. 
2. Risk premiums can and will change over time: Risk premiums are driven 
by risk aversion, and risk aversion itself can change over time. In fact, 
greed and fear, two big drivers of market prices, also affect risk aversion, 
with investors becoming more risk averse and charging higher 
premiums, when the fear factor becomes dominant.
3. When risk premiums change, prices will move: As risk premiums 
change, the prices that investors are willing to pay for risky assets will 
also change, with the two moving in opposite directions. Intuitively, if 
you want to earn a higher risk premium on an investment, holding cash 
flows fixed, you will pay less for that investment today.
5
Corporate Bonds: The Price of Risk
¨If you accept the proposition that a bond with default risk is riskier than 
an otherwise equivalent bond (same coupon and maturity) issued by a 
default-free entity, the price of risk in the bond market can be measured 
by looking at the differences in yields between the two bonds.
6
Corporate Bond Spreads: Jan 2021 vs Jan 2020
7
After a roller coaster ride in 2020
8
Are spreads too low? Comparing to history
9
And to default rates…
10
Equities: The Price of Risk
¨Equities are riskier than bonds (or at least most bonds), 
and it stands to reason that there is a price of risk 
bearing in the equity markets. 
¨While that price has a name, i.e., the equity risk 
premium, it is more difficult to observe and estimate 
than the default spread in bond markets. The simple 
reason is that unlike a bond, which comes with specified 
coupons, the cash flows that you receive when you buy 
stocks are neither pre-specified nor guaranteed. 
¨This difficulty in observing the equity risk premium leads 
many to look backwards, when asked to estimate the 
equity risk premium.
11
Historical ERP
12
An Alternative…
13
The ERP on January 1, 2021
14
And the wild ride in 2020…
15
A Market Gauge?
¨As we are engulfed by talk of market bubbles and 
corrections, it is worth nothing that any question 
about the overall market can really be reframed as a 
question about the implied equity risk premium. 
¤If you believe that the current implied equity risk premium 
is too low, you are in effect also saying that stocks are 
overvalued, just as a judgment that the equity risk 
premium is too high is equivalent to arguing that stocks are 
undervalued. 
¤So, at 4.72%, is the equity risk premium too low and is the 
market in a bubble?
16
Comparison to History
17
But….
18
To value the market…
¨ Earnings on the index: You cannot value a market based upon last year's earnings 
(though many do so). Investing is about the future, and uncomfortable as it makes 
you, you have tomake estimates for the future. With an index like the S&P 500, 
you can even outsource these estimates, by looking at consensus forecasts from 
analysts tracking the index.
¨ Cash returned, relative to earnings: Since it is cash returned to stockholders that 
drives value, you also have tomake judgments on what percent of earnings will be 
returned to stockholders, either in dividends or buybacks. To this, you can look to 
history, but recognize that it is also a function of the confidence that companies 
have about the future, with more confidence leading to higher cash being 
returned.
¨ Risk free rates over time: While it is generally not a good idea to play interest rate 
forecaster, we are in unusual times, especially because your views on future 
growth in the economy are intertwined with what will happen to risk free rates.
¨ An acceptable ERP: As I noted in the last section, equity risk premiums have been 
volatile over time, and particularly so in years in 2020. The equity risk premium, 
added to the risk freerate, will determine what you need stock returns to be, to 
break even on a risk-adjusted basis.
19
My S&P 500 valuation on Jan 1, 2021
20
TheDrivers.. And Scenarios
Economy strong Economy weak
Interest rates stay low Goldilocks market, with interest rates 
staying low (1%), earnings above 
expectations (+10%) and ERP drifting 
back to historic norms (4.2%).
Index is undervalued by 19.83%
Big Bear market, with interest rates low 
(1%), earnings below expectations (-
5%) and ERP moving to crisis levels 
(5.5%).
Index is overvalued by 23.07%
Interest rates rise 
gradually
Reality-check market, with interest rates 
rising gradually (to 2%), earnings above 
expectations (+5%) and ERP settling in at 
5%.
Index is overvalued by 6.46 %
Big Bear market, with interest rates 
rising gradually (to 2%), earnings below 
expectations (-5%) and ERP moving to 
crisis levels (5.5%).
Index is overvalued by 30.42%
Interest rates rise quicklyRate Shock market, with interest rates 
rising quickly (to 2%), earnings at 
expectations and ERP settling in at 5%.
Index is overvalued by 13.21%
Meltdown market, with interest rates 
rising quickly (to 2%), earnings below 
expectations (-10%) and ERP moving to 
crisis levels (5.5%).
Index is overvalued by 39.41%
21
The Bottom Line
¨I am a reluctant market timer, but ultimatelywe all time markets, 
implicitly or explicitly,theformerinhowmuch ofyourportfolio
staysincashorgoes into non-equity investments, and the latter 
where you buy protection against market drops or bet on market 
moves.
¨Going into 2021, I have far more cash in my portfolio than I usually 
do, and for the first time in a long, long time, I have bought partial 
protection against a market drop, using derivatives. It is insurance, 
and like all insurance, my best casescenario is that I never need to 
use it, but it reflects my wariness about what comes next. 
¨I am not and don't want to be in the business of doling out 
investment advice,and I think that the healthiest pathway for you 
is to make your ownjudgments on interest rates,earnings growth 
and acceptable risk premiums, and follow thatwith consistent 
actions.
