Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/country/ViralUpdateLessonsNew.pdf

POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE: COVID 
LESSONS FOR INVESTING/BUSINESS
Glimmers of light?
2
Lesson 1: Listen to markets, not experts
¨ During a crisis, you will be often told by experts and 
market gurus that markets are irrational and behave 
in crazy and chaotic ways.
¨ To back this up, the evidence that they will offer is 
that markets have wild swings on a day-to-day basis, 
and that these swings are incompatible with rational 
investing.
¨ They very conveniently ignore the fact that their 
advice is even more volatile, veering from day to 
day…
3
The truth: Markets play a pricing game…
4
And price and value can diverge…
1. Value has upper & lower bounds. Price does not: Since price 
is determined by demand and supply, and there is nothing 
that requires that those buying and selling in markets have 
to be constrained, it follows that there is no upper or lower 
bound to prices. Value on the other hand has both upper 
and lower bounds, with both bounds being set by expected 
cash flows, growth and risk.
2. Price is reactive, value is proactive: Pricing forces can take 
information that, at least at first sight, seems insignificant to 
long term value and cause price changes that are 
disproportional.
3. Price may never converge on value: Absent a catalyst 
causing the convergence, price will not only diverge from 
value in the short term, but it could do so in the long term.
5
Equities, during the crisis…
6
Macro Review: Equity Indices
7
Macro Review: US Treasuries
8
Macro Review: Corporate Bonds
9
Macro Review: Oil & Copper
10
Macro Review: Gold & Bitcoin
11
Global Equities: By Region
12
Global Equities: By Sector
13
Global Equities: Industry Winners & Losers
14
A Sum-up on Markets..
¨ Uncertainty barometer: The market has had its ups and 
downs, with volatility in the mix. It has looked uncertain 
about direction, with big up days followed by big down 
days. It is reflecting the uncertainty that we all feel, on a 
day-to-day basis.
¨ Order in chaos: When we look at the full effects, the 
market has been remarkably orderly in how it has meted 
out punishment and doled out reward.
¨ Liquidity is a solution, not a problem: To those who 
argued that markets should be shut down, this crisis 
should be a reminder that removing liquidity during a 
crisis often makes it worse, rather than better .
15
Lesson 2: Opinions are trumped by data…
¨ Every crisis brings forth explanations for why it is happening, 
and what we should do about it, with half-baked rationales 
and anecdotal evidence. Listen, with respect, but verify for 
yourself.
¨ For people with agendas, the crisis has offered an 
opportunity to not only say, “I told you so” , but also to push 
for legal and regulatory changes to advance their viewpoints.
¨ Here are two stories that are making the rounds
¤ Just punishment: The market drop is well-deserved punishment for 
those who invested in high flying companies and on momentum.
¤ Buybacks are the problem: The surge in buybacks are caused 
companies to become weak and exposed, and the market is punishing 
those companies.
16
Value versus Growth: A pre-crisis lead in..
The under performance of value has played out not only in the mutual 
fund business, but has also brought many legendary value investors 
down to earth. We were told that this was temporary, and that a crisis 
would put value back on top again…
17
PE and Market Returns – During Crisis
18
Momentum and Damage
19
Bottom Line on Value vs Growth
¨ Value failed this crisis test: During this crisis, following the 
value investing playbook of buying low PE stocks with high 
dividend yields would have resulted in far worse punishment 
being meted out than buying high PE stocks, based upon 
momentum. 
¨ In my view: I believe that value investing has become 
ritualistic (worshiping at the altar of Buffett and Munger, and
paying lip service to Ben Graham) and righteous (with finger 
wagging and worse reserved for anyone who invested in 
growth or tech companies). 
¨ Hope? On a hopeful note, I think that value investing can 
recover, but only if it is open to more flexible thinking about 
value, less hero worship and less of a sense of entitlement.
20
The Buyback Bogeyman…
0.00%
10.00%
20.00%
30.00%
40.00%
50.00%
60.00%
70.00%
80.00%
0.00
100.00
200.00
300.00
400.00
500.00
600.00
700.00
800.00
900.00
19881989199019911992199319941995199619971998199920002001200220032004200520062007200820092010201120122013201420152016201720182019
Dividends and Buybacks on S&P 500: 1988- 2019
Buybacks Dividends Proportion from Buybacks
21
A Test: Buybacks vs No Buybacks
22
A follow up with dividends
23
The Real Culprit…
24
Lesson 3: There is no smart money…
¨ In investing mythology, there are smart investors and 
stupid investors. 
¤ Smart investors sense when markets are going to turn, and get 
in sooner than others, and get out sooner than others. After 
every crisis, there are a few who are anointed as gurus. They are 
also much better at picking the right stocks to buy and sell
¤ Stupid investors are uninformed, act on emotion, and panic 
quickly.
¨ Professional money managers and talking heads on 
financial TV land are smart investors. Retail investors are 
stupid investors.
25
One test: Active vs Passive
¨ In passive investing, as an investor, you allocate your wealth 
across asset classes (equities, bonds, real assets) based upon 
your risk aversion, liquidity needs and time horizon, and 
within each class, rather than pick individual stocks, bonds or 
real assets, you invest in index funds or exchange traded 
funds (ETFs) to cover the spectrum of choices. 
¨ In active investing, you try to time markets (by allocating 
more money to asset classes that you believe are under 
valued and less to those that you think are over valued) or 
pick individual assets that you believe offer the potential for 
higher returns. 
¨ Active investing covers a whole range of different 
philosophies from day trading to buying entire companies 
and holding them for the long term.
26
The Lead In
27
The Crisis Test
28
A Different Classification
¨ Humble vs Arrogant: I think that investors are better 
grouped into humble and arrogant, with 
¤ Humble investors recognizing that success, when it comes, is as 
much a function of luck as it is of skill, and failure, when it too 
arrives, is part of investing and an occasion for learning. 
¤ Arrogant investors claim every investing win as a sign of their 
skill and view every loss as an affront, doubling down on their 
mistakes. 
¨ If I had to pick someone to manage my money, the 
quality that I would value the most in making that choice 
is humility, since humble investors are less likely to 
overpromise and overcommit.
29
Lesson 4: The fundamentals matter, more than 
ever…  in a crisis
30
Market Worries
¨ Disconnect from economic news: For some, the skepticism 
comes from the disconnect with macroeconomic numbers 
that are abysmal, as unemployment claims climb into the 
tens of millions and consumer confidence hovers around 
historic lows. I will spend the first part of this section arguing 
that this reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of what 
markets try to do, and a misreading of history. 
¨ In denial? For others, the question is whether markets are 
adequately reflecting the potential for long term damage to 
earnings and cash flows, as well as the cost of defaults, from 
this crisis. Since that answer to that question lies in the eyes 
of the beholder, I will provide a framework for converting 
your fears and hopes into numbers and a value for the 
market.
31
Explaining the disconnect…
32
Value Drivers for the Index
33
1. Earnings
34
2. Cash Flows
35
3. Risk
36
My Story for the Market
37
My Valuation of the Index
38
Facing up to uncertainty
39
Lesson 5: Stories + Numbers
The Numbers People
Favored Tools
- Accounting statements
- Excel spreadsheets
- Statistical Measures
- Pricing Data
Illusions/Delusions
1. Precision: Data is precise
2. Objectivity: Data has no bias
3. Control: Data can control reality
The Narrative People
Favored Tools
- Anecdotes
- Experience (own or others)
- Behavioral evidence
Illusions/Delusions
1. Creativity cannot be quantiﬁed
2. If the story is good, the 
investment will be.
3. Experience is the best teacher
A Good Valuation
40
From story to numbers and beyond..
Aswath Damodaran40
Step 1: Develop a narrative for the business that you are valuing
In the narrative, you tell your story about how you see the business evolving over 
time. Keep it simple & focused.
Step 3: Convert the narrative into drivers of value
Take the narrative apart and look at how you will bring it into valuaton inputs starting 
with potential market size down to cash ﬂows and risk. By the time you are done, 
each part of the narrative should have a place in your numbers and each number 
should be backed up a portion of your story.
Step 4: Connect the drivers of value to a valuation
Create an intrinsic valuation model that connects the inputs to an end-value the 
business.
Step 5: Keep the feedback loop open
Listen to people who know the business better than you do and use their 
suggestions to ﬁne tune your narrative and perhaps even alter it. Work out the 
effects on value of alternative narratives for the company.
Step 2: Test the narrative to see if it is possible, plausible and probable
There are lots of possible narratives, not all of them are plausible and only a few of 
them are probable. No fairy tales or runaway stories.
41
The Basics of Value
43
The Virus Effect: A Picture
44
And the dark side beckons…
¨ if your concept of valuation is downloading last year's 
financials for a company into a spread sheet and then using 
historical growth rates, with some mean reversion thrown in, 
to forecast future numbers, you are probably feeling lost right 
now, and with good reason.
¨ It is also not a time to wring our hands, complain that there is 
too much uncertainty and argue that the fundamentals don't 
matter . 
¤ If you do so, you will be drawn to the dark side of investing, where 
fundamentals don't matter (paradigm shifts, anyone?), new pricing 
metrics get invented and you are at the mercy of mood and 
momentum. 
¨ Ironically, it is precisely at times like these that you need to go 
back to basics.
45
A Post-Corona Version
