Source: http://www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pdfiles/Accounting101/slides/session5A.pdf

SESSION 5A: ACCOUNTING 
INCONSISTENCY EXAMPLES
Accounting for Finance
2
1. Tax Rates
3
2. Non-debt Commitments
qIn general, interest-bearing debt will show up on 
balance sheets, though some of it may be included 
in current liabilities (if due in less than a year) and 
the rest as debt.
qThere are other contractual commitments that have 
historically not shown up on balance sheets, but 
should be treated like debt.
qThe most common of these commitments is 
operating leases, but IFRS and GAAP have finally 
made the ‘right’ decision and started including them 
as debt in 2019.
4
A Retail Example: Nordstrom’s
On the balance sheet in 2019
Discounted at 
4.7%
Treated as 5-year annuity of $227.2 m/year (=1136/5) starting in 2025
1
2
5
Consequences for the company
¨Debt increases: The debt on the balance sheet is 
augmented by the present value of lease commitments.
¨A counter asset is created: Equivalent to the lease debt.
¨Operating income changes, since you add back the 
current year’s lease expense and reduce it by 
depreciation. Net income does not or should not change.
¤Interest expenses go up by the interest portion of the current 
year’s lease payment.
¤Depreciation is increasedby the depreciation on the lease asset 
(using the prior year’s value)
¨Taxes and net income do not change, since you replace 
one tax deductible expense (operating lease) with two 
(interest and depreciation) of equivalent value.
6
Another example: Netflix
1
2
7
3. Non-Physical Capital Expenses
¨While accountants almost always treat investments in 
physical assets as capital expenses and show them on the 
balance sheet, they are inconsistent and unpredictable when 
it comes to investments in non-physical assets.
¤A pharmaceutical company that buys a patent from another one is 
allowed to treat that expenditure as a capital expenditure, but one 
that does R&D to arrive at the same result is not.
¤A company reliant on human capital for its value is almost never 
required to treat what it invests in human capital for the long term 
(recruiting and training, for example) as capital expenditures.
¤A subscriber/user based company that spends money acquiring users 
or subscribers generally is not allowed to treat the money spent 
acquiring customers as capital expenditures.
8
A Pharmaceutical Company Example
9
4. Stock Based Compensation
¨Companies following IFRS and GAAP report the current 
year’s stock-based compensation as an operating 
expense, valuing both options and restricted stock at the 
time of issuance.
¤That said, the residue of past option grants will show up in the 
footnotes of these companies, with relevant information on 
remaining maturity and exercise price.
¤The restricted stock units granted in past years will show up as 
part of the discussion of share count.
¨In both cases, companies will then try to reverse the 
accounting charge, claiming it is non-cash in reporting 
pro-forma or adjusted earnings.
10
Options Outstanding… at Netflix
1
2
3
11
And Adjusted EBITDA… at Peloton
1
12
Bottom Line
¨Accounting statements are just raw material: In corporate finance and 
valuation, financial statements are raw data that should be viewed as 
accounting opinion and not fact.
¨That you should mold to your own needs: To the extent that accounting 
perspectives can be outdated or reflect a different set of priorities, you 
should feel no qualms about redoing or reconstructing accounting 
statements.
¨But your choices will have consequences: That can have consequences for 
how you measure profits, invested capital and even share count. The 
company that you see will be closer to the truth than the company 
described in accounting statements.
¨Markets don’t follow (and are more sensible than) accountants: For the 
most part, markets learn and move on faster than accountants do. Thus, 
markets have been pricing in retailers, on the assumption that leases are 
debt for decades, while accountants made the change in 2019.
